Meganola is in the family Nolidae, and this particular species I had under a different
name until recently, and Heinrich suggested that all the ones that he's collected around
here match miniscula better than the name that I was using.
And I was using the name that Bill Patterson was using, and I agree with Heinrich that
this name seems to be better, and I think we only have one species in this genus from
around here.
That's good.
Yeah, I know.
I've got a notification.
I have something from...
And this is another in that group of false underwing moths.
Yes, sir.
Thank you.
And easy to recognize, but could be...
It has a white hindwing, but it's not like Drasteria palisans, which is the false underwing
and Drasteria that's around here.
And this shows up in Davis sporadically.
Its abundance seems to vary a lot from year to year.
That's impressive.
Mesogona, Olaveta, and two other mesogona all feed on Madrone, not Madrone.
Well, maybe on Madrone, but certainly on Arctostaphyllus.
And where one species ends and the next one begin are a little bit tricky, but Olaveta seems
to be the most common species around here, but I do have the other two species from Cold
Canyon, and none of them in Davis yet, even though we're seeing more and more Arctostaphyllus
being planted as a drought-tolerant shrubbery.
My Marista subcostalis is a crammed, looks very tropical-looking, you know, has very pointed
wings and so forth, translucent portions of the wing.
Very easy to recognize, somewhat common at Cold Canyon.
I think I've got it once in my yard, but I'm not certain.
Go to the restroom, but you guys keep going.
Marifacarma ebernella is a Gellicaea that feeds on Bracken fern, which is unusual.
You know, ferns don't have too many things that feed on it because ferns have a chemical that's
somewhat of an analog to juvenile hormone of insects.
You find a lot of plants that have phytotoxic or toxic chemicals to many species have specialists
which have overcome the resistance, and it's interesting that there's a lot of species
will feed on ferns and only ferns and nothing else, or feed on oaks and nothing else, so
they've overcome the toxic qualities.
Is this species a specialist on Bracken ferns?
Pardon me?
Is this species a specialist on Bracken ferns, do you think?
It's only on Bracken ferns, yeah.
Monfa species one and Monfa species two are probably the same thing.
Based on Kyla, who was the world expert on Monfaids, I sent him the specimens and he did
not put a name on this, he just called it a new species.
And he seemed to group together ones that were under number one and number two.
And number one and number two, I only separated on the basis, the pattern was the same, but
one of them had bright white ground color with black markings, and the other one had kind of a
cream colored four wing, much less bright. But it could be that that is a sex difference,
or it could be that it's just a seasonal farmer. Monfids feed on a gray sea family for the most part.
And then Monfa species three turned out not to be a Monfa at all, and I don't know what they are, but I only had three specimens.
And I seem to have misplaced them, so. Oh no. I may have put them in the wrong...
Myelopsis alatella, I don't know much about it. It's a physitine
pyralis, so there may be more information in the monographs.
Monographs. The monographs, there's three or four of them in the Mona series, and then there was an
earlier monograph by Heinrich, which you can download
in the American Museum, Proceedings of the American Museum, or one of the American museums. It's a big book.
It's not.
This is an interesting species, because there appears to be...
It's known for certain that in Europe, there's both resident populations and migratory ones.
So, remember earlier we were talking about flight periods and how you assess it? Well, if you have
resident populations and migratory populations,
when the flight actually begins, it's complicated due to the migratory populations.
But in Europe, it's known that the migratory generation or populations show up
later in the year, towards the end of summer and fall. So, probably the same thing is going on here.
And you look at the early season specimens look a little bit different than the ones later in the
year, but I think there's only one species involved here, unless the migratory ones are a different
species than the non-migratory ones. And I don't know whether the DNA studies have been made. Somebody
gave a seminar on this here, when I was still employed, so more than 20 years ago. And
I, at that time, that person who was looking at them in Europe
had not done any DNA studies. But at that time, DNA studies were just beginning to catch fire.
Other species that have migratory and resident populations are
high leaves lineata, the white line sphinx. So, that's another one that's going to be confused if you try to
identify flight periods. Eric has a student who's working on flight periods of the South Carolina moths that he's
surveying. So, um,
and then painted ladies is another one. But there's probably more that we don't know about.
But most of them seem to be larger species. I don't think
any micros are known to migrate too far for those little guys to go, I think.
But they may disperse, um, because you find things which shouldn't be in Davis, in Davis.
You know, and I get them multiple times, and yet the food plant isn't here as far as I know.
So, they get around somehow. It could be wind-blown because they're so small.
I got into arguments with Wagner about this because
well, I don't want to go into it. But for the longest time, they said,
we only have Oregonensis here. And in fact, Miller, who was the first author of this Notodonid,
called me up and said, we only have Oregonensis here. And later on, they backtracked on that and said
you have both species. And so, I vacillated between calling it Gabosa and Oregonensis. And finally, I said,
okay, okay, they're and or. And the external character that they used
doesn't seem to be reliable. And I don't know whether the genitalia are different or not, but
I haven't looked into the monograph that well, that closely.
And I didn't save a lot of specimens because I thought they were all one.
But what happened is I sent a female to Wagner that laid eggs. And
he kind of messed up things in the monograph. So I was very upset about that because, you know,
he attributes this to me. And, you know, I told him over and over again, I don't know this. And
instead of resolving it, you know, he would argue with me based upon his animosity towards one of the
other co-authors on what it was or was not. And, you know, because he changed positions over time,
I think it's screwed up in the monograph.
So whether there's one or two species, I can't tell you for sure. I think they're
more likely all Oregonensis than a mixture of the two species.
Nema Pogan species one, I think this is the one we're calling near Arcella. But Arcella is no longer
a valid name. And that name, Arcella, and the identification, Nema Pogan near Arcella came from
Don Davis, who was the primitive moth specialist at the Smithsonian. And so he kind of claimed
most of the primitive families of moths as his territory and would only allow you to work on them
if they were impossible to work on. In any event, this seems to be the most common species of Nema Pogan,
both in Davis and in Cold Canyon. But the species are kind of similar to one another,
and whether they're all identified correctly or not, I don't know.
A difference that Powell told me was the color of the tuft of hair-like feathers on the crown of the head.
So they're white in one species and kind of a
dirty white, brownish white on this near Arcella thing.
So there's probably at least two and maybe
well more than two specimens. Tanaids are difficult, and I haven't resolved it.
Powell knew Tanaids pretty well because he did some papers on the ones that feed on
various fungi in California. And, you know, he had some notions, but I don't know.
