Hygiumina. There's two species here. These are geometrids, common name high flyer moths,
and these two species, albifaciata and nubifaciata, both feed on oaks, and they can show up in outbreak
numbers any particular year. So with all the oaks having been burned at Cold Canyon, it'll be
interesting to see what's happened to the population if somebody goes back there in the
future and looks for albifaciata. They're both quite variable in phenotypes and forming patterns,
and albifaciata always has a white spot that you can see, and it flies a little bit later
than nubile fasciata. Nubile fasciata is a common species in Davis, and I've only got albifaciata
once in my yard, and it quite possibly was a hitchhiker from a visit to Cold Canyon, and
that's always a possibility. Hystricophora leonana is a Olethrutine tortricid, and I think its
life history is unknown, but Powell speculated that it bores into roots of chaparral pea, which
used to be called soraliella, P-S-O-R, and now it's in a different genus. Rupertia, I think,
is the new genus. How do I remember things like that? I don't know. I don't know. I could never.
Just when, you know, when you remember things certain ways, they don't go away, but other things
are just ephemeral. Yeah, well, this is your talent. They go away like, you know, a whiff of smoke.
Yeah. Idea bona fata. The ones that, this is a tiny
geometric, as small as many micros, and smaller than, I'd say, half the so-called micro moths,
and the ones in my backyard in Davis are smaller than the ones at Cold Canyon and paler than the
ones at Cold Canyon, and I gave a specimen to Wagner who said he would do DNA on it, but he never did, or
if he did, he didn't give me the results, and this has a long flight period, and I don't know
if anything's known about the hosts, but I think this group of geometras
is alleged to feed on annuals, and
I can't say that that's true of this one.
Idea demyceria. This is possibly more than one species that I'm using here.
Originally, I was given a different name for this from
Ron Leuchner, who was kind of notorious for erroneous
identifications, but he had the genus right anyway, and it wasn't until I saw pictures of the two species
on the moth photographer's group that I decided that this was a better name for it,
but the other species name was Eremiata, E-R-E-M-I-A-T-A, and it could be that we have both species,
and if so, they're all recorded as demyceria now.
This is a subfamily of geometrids that was being studied by somebody who's now in Florida,
and he corralled all the specimens and held on them for years and years and years,
and never got anywhere worth of work, and finally,
you know, repatriated, and by that time he was no longer working on the group, so
many of the specimens, when they were returned, were in poor condition, and
so it remains a group that needs to be looked at.
So, idea americalis.
This is right at the beginning of the checklist on geometrics,
and it's reasonably easy to look like, to identify.
It looks a little like a geometric though, and I don't know anything about the host flint.
And again, as I said before, if I know that something is a non-native species,
I'll bring it up, but most of the time I know nothing.
Okay.
Idea lubricalis.
I was using the name lubricalis until this species called occidentalis was removed from synonymy.
And then, for a while, moth photographers group showed that all of the specimens from
California were, in the West, were occidentalis.
But when you look at the pictures, the ones that we get here look more like lubricalis than occidentalis.
So, I'm not sure which is the correct name.
I haven't dissected them, but I think they're all, they're only one species out here.
And if the wing pattern is diagnostic, they're probably locally lubricalis and not occidentalis, but
I think you can analyze them as a single species and feel confident they are.
So, Iridopsis clivenaria, this one can be confused with the species Pachydaria, which is
Ethaloida, A-E-T-H-L-O-I-D-I-A.
This entire group of geometrids are confusingly similar to one another.
But this one is somewhat distinct. There are other species in the genus,
but every specimen that I've caught matches up pretty well with clivenaria.
Pachydaria, the similar species, is smaller, but Mariah, when she reared some,
they were starved slightly, and so she reared some runts, and the runts were very easily confused
with Pachydaria. And I believe it fed on Adenostoma.
Keferia Elmori is the native,
this is a Gelicheid, and it is almost identical to Keferia Lycopersicella, which is a pest of cotton.
And whether or not their two species are not as
disputed. What may be happening is Lycopersicella was introduced with cotton, and that
they are hybridizing now, so we have hybrid populations. But in general, it's not that
populations on
and away from cotton fields are probably, in California, Elmori.
But it's a Noramashamine, Gelicheid, and all the Noramashamines are very difficult to tell apart
from one another just by looking at them. So it's almost a certainty that I have not recorded every
specimen of Keferia, no matter what. And then all the Noramashamines were borrowed by
Varick, and are sitting now in Canada. And Varick got fired, so we'll never work on it,
for possession of child pornography, among all things.
Oh, Jesus. Oh, God.
He went to the slammer for a while, and he's out, but he's no longer employed.
Lysinopolia cuneata is a dark species. There's a number of species of Lysinopolia cuneata is a dark
species, and I use kind of that dark general appearance to identify them. Flies early in the
year, and I think they're all identified and all recorded, but dark individuals are some similar
looking species, could be under this name erroneously. So, Lysinopolia is a difficult genus.
Part of it was revised recently, and I found that one species turned out to be two,
neither of which was the name I was formerly using. So,
things happen to change concepts. Lysinopolia quadrilineata has a characteristic
dash on the hind wing, or on the forewing, and the hind wing is white. So, this one is fairly
easy to identify, but some specimens look like the next one, Strigicollis. And quadrilineata is the
common species in Davis. Strigicollis is second to that. And then it looks like none of the others
qualified to make your analysis. Lucania, Oaxacana. Lucania and a couple of other genera are very
similar to one another. Alicia is one of the other ones. And Mithymna used to be called
Sudalicia. These are all kind of pale tan with streaks and various amounts. Very difficult to
identify on the basis of wing pattern alone. And this is the name that I've been using,
but Fulker Heinrich has been calling them Occidentalis, I think, rather than Oaxacanis.
I think there's only one species. Some of them could be misidentified, Mithymna unupuncta, but
I think what I've called Lucania are all Lucania. And I think they're only one species, but
Bill Patterson recorded one other species from Quail Ridge. So, if he was correct, there could be other
species in the area. There was a web page on this genus that was recently removed, but it only covered
specimen species that were in the possession of the Smithsonian. So, some of the western species
weren't there. So, it was only okay. But what he tried to do is give characters for identifying them
without having to rely on genitalia, which was a noble effort. But when you don't have all the species,
that it was only so-so. Luca Guniella and Distincta, I have, these can, to me, they can only be
tailed apart by doing dissections. And I have dissected a few and found two different genitalia
species among one of the sexes, I think. And I have illustrations of both. And I could
positively match them up with the illustrations that I have. So, I think we have both. And
most of them I've just recorded as a combination of the two. And there's a third species, which I think
is just even more distinctive, despite the name Distincta. And it's not in our area as far as I know.
But there are other species and other genera of Galechaeids, which also look like these. So,
it's hard. Galechaeids are hard. And there's only one person working on them at present, I think. And,
you know, she can only do so much.
Mm-hmm.
Leniote's Integra is a
crambine pyroloid that looks like a
pterophora that doesn't have the wings deeply cleft. And I reared it from
native solanum at Cold Cannon. And I think I've got it in my yard a few times.
There is an introduced species that feeds on honeysuckle that turned up in the Bay Area,
but I haven't seen it around here yet. So, you know, long legs, narrow wings like a pterophora.
But unlike pterophoras, the legs don't fall off easily.
Palos suspected that's convergent evolution with crane flies, because crane flies, the legs fall off
really easily too. But whether there's any advantage to that, I guess, is debatable.
Macaria Adonis, I don't know too much about it, but this was in a recent monograph
that included its authors Wagner. And the monograph
is good as far as it went, but there's certain groups. But this is a fairly distinctive one,
and I think all of them have been recorded. But there is a similar looking species that
known from California, but I don't think we have it here. I got this once in Davis.
Macaria Extemporada is, again, food plants might be listed in that monograph for all of these,
Macaria and Digramia. And these used to be in Semiotiza and other genera, but
Guennaia area, fairly common, different than the other ones around here, but similar to species
that are not from around here. So I think they're all identified correctly. Time for water.
I got one in my yard this year for the first time.
Messina Mustelinalis, um, a crambined,
crambid, it's no longer a subfamily. It's a crambid, uh, pyraloid.
Feeds on grasses, almost certainly. And, um, fairly widespread, fairly common,
but I don't believe I've ever got it in Davis. But there's no reason why it shouldn't be here.
