Okay. Me, I mean. Yes, we did stop. Okay, we're going to start with Uzoa. Uzoa is a big genus,
and it was revised by LaFontaine in Canada, and he published most of it in a single volume of
Molls of North America, you know, the Mona series, and then a few others were in a subsequent volume
that he added later on. It's a big genus. A lot of the species are very similar to one another,
and LaFontaine is a splitter, so. No.
Oh. It has been the experience of myself and others who have sent him photographs
that he will provide you a name which doesn't match the pictures in his volume, so.
When I have done dissections, though, I've been able to figure things out.
So, the common one in Davis is called Septentria dalis, and that one has many similar-looking
species, and I'm slowly beginning to figure out how to tell them apart without doing dissections,
and we don't get that so often at Cold Canyon, and the only ones, I guess, that made your criteria
were this one called Brunigera, and I got that name from Ron Robertson, who identified most
of the noctuids in the beginning. But subsequently, I got a name of M. Fausta from Tim McCabe, who's
in Albany, New York, and he, too, is a noctuid specialist. So, they're similar-looking species.
I could have one or both under this name.
So, you're talking about all the euzo are like that?
No, just Brunigera and M. Fausta. It could be either species or both. I think that they're
probably Brunigera. Ron Robertson was really good, and, you know, he was self-trained. He
was just an excellent biologist. All of a sudden, he quit working on moths and started working
on lichens, you know, of all things.
Takoyi is a little bit more easily recognized.
Is this likely to be native?
I don't know.
Okay.
Most of these things, I don't know. And then there's a question about definition of native,
native, because they could be native, but they may not be reproducing in Cold Canyon or in
Davis. And euzo is one of those generally, which has a number of species which are known
to, I don't know if you'd call it migration or just dispersal.
But some of them require specialized habitats, like the larvae are in sand dune vegetation,
and they make their chrysalis or their cocoons under the sandy soil.
But a lot of them are just generalists and widespread. Most of them feed on trees and shrubs.
And I don't know if they're specialists or not.
Probably the monograph will have some information on known food plants.
But again, whether that's all the food plants or not, I couldn't tell you.
Okay.
Eusophora semifuneralis is a physitine pyralid.
It has a common name like peach or plum borer or something like that.
And there is a similar looking species that has been reported from this area, but I don't
know whether those are erroneous identifications or not.
And curiously, even though this is a known pest species, I've only got it once in my yard.
And this is one alleged pest species which seems to be more common at Cold Canyon and far more
common at Cold Canyon than in Davis.
And I have pluot, you know, which is a plum.
And my neighbor had a plum even before I planted my pluot.
So, strange thing.
Feralia februalis is a very attractive, mottled, kind of reticulate pattern, green and white
noctua with black scale in a swill.
And allegedly, there are two species going under this name.
One is darker than the other.
And there's some variability.
And occasionally, you find specimens where the green is replaced by orange.
And, in fact, if you put them in a relaxer with certain chemicals in it, the green will
turn to orange.
So, it could be an environmental thing or it could be food plant affects the color of
the, what is normally green.
But I've never seen orange ones from Cold Canyon.
And I've never seen the moth in Davis.
I don't know the food plant, but I think it's kind of a generalist on trees and shrubs.
Talk to it.
Phylatoma or phylaetema.
Many species.
There's not very good literature.
It needs revision.
You know, there was, this is similar looking to kyanotis.
You can tell the males at the generic level very easily because they have some secondary
scales on the hindwing, androconial scales on the hindwing.
They call them curtain scales.
So, if you look at them upside down.
And then if you look at the tip of the abdomen, you can also see some characters.
But the females are a little bit harder.
And Wagner believes that shiny scales on the top of the abdomen are sufficient to tell them
apart from the similar looking general, which would be kyanotis, aroga, and bryotropa, among
others.
There's, these are the ones that the wings are overlapping and flat on top of the body
instead of tent-like or pitched roof-like.
Fercula cynaroides was lumped with another species called cynaria for a while.
And it was removed.
It was, the status was changed in the recent monograph on not-a-dotted moth.
And Wagner, who was co-author of the monograph, says that Miller, who was the first author, was
a splitter.
So, I don't know whether DNA studies were done on these, but this one, I think, feeds on
willows.
And, um, it looks almost identical to cynaria and a couple of other former subspecies that
were elevated in the monograph.
But it's, regardless of the name, it's all one species, probably native.
And then, when it's included with all the things that used to be subspecies, it's transcontinental.
And, um, Galleria melanella is the greater wax moth, and we discussed that previously.
And I have stumbled across, um, honeybee hives or honeybee nests at Cull Canyon from time
to time.
So there are some, uh, wild honeybee populations.
So they're not just coming out of, uh, apiary, uh, you know, agricultural honeybee colonies.
Givira Marga is a, what's the family now?
Look it up, and you can get the family.
Cossidae.
Yeah, cossids.
Cossids are borers for the most part.
And, um, sometimes get into infections, but often are primary borers.
And I don't know too much about Givira Marga, but, you know, the prionnix is a big cossid.
This is a small one.
And the abdomen is disproportionately long when compared to the wingspan.
So it's fairly easy.
And then the antennae are very short.
So it's a strange-looking moth and easy to recognize.
And whether the specific name is correct or not is up for debate.
It hasn't been resolved yet.
But, um, this is what we, Greg and I, primarily have decided to call the local Givira.
Hemeraplanis Historialis, um, it's a, now in the, um, what was split off from Noctuids?
Aribid?
Pardon me?
Aribid?
Yeah.
I haven't talked moth in three weeks, and I'm losing it.
Um, and, uh, it looks very much like a geometric and easily confusing.
When I first collected these, you know, I showed them to Powell and showed them to other people.
They couldn't come up with the name.
And then finally when it came up, and then I couldn't remember the name.
Um, but all of them are recorded, and, um, it used to be that I couldn't, we were calling them species Finitima, F-I-N-I-T-I-M-A, in the beginning.
Um, so in the early spreadsheets, you may see that name.
Um, but I couldn't tell it apart from this species, and then eventually they were all lumped under this name, so.
It took care of that identity crisis.
This is Henricus Ambrosana, we talked about in Davis.
It's, uh, tortures from Oaks.
In a, uh, subfamily, Coccolini, that's, uh, currently being revised, but one of the authors, uh, passed away.
So, the revision may be less.
By the way, that person who wrote the San Joaquin Valley Moth, uh, was the single fatality in a auto accident, not, in October or November.
So, he's no longer with us.
Oh, the thing that you reviewed?
Yeah.
Oh, no.
He had been under care for some health conditions, so whether that contributed to the auto accident.
Oh, that's awful.
But, you know, it was kind of shocking.
And, you know, I'm at the age where driving is scary, so when I hear things like that, it's, just rattles me.
Plus, I liked him.
He was a good friend.
I'm sorry.
That sucks.
Hesperumia sulforaria.
Um, this is a geometric yellow, but, um, varying amounts of black on the forewing.
I've got it once in Davis, and I think it feeds on, um, adenostoma, but I'm not certain about that.
And there is a second species, which can be confused with this.
And for the longest time, I had no records of it, and then I got two of this similar species.
And I can't remember the name of it off the top of my head.
But the similar species generally has, uh, considerably, well, a wide, somewhat wide, I should say, uh, black margin to the wings.
And, uh, I thought that it wasn't, that other species was not here, but Mariah reported it from McLaughlin.
And then when I looked at her specimens, I said, oh, and then not too long after that, I got a couple of specimens at Cold Canyon.
But it's conceivable that some of the earlier records were misidentified, because previously I had called them all the other species, and then had a change of heart.
So, um, there's another character, too, the dot, they call it the, there's a, um, spot in the disco cell of the four wings, and that, um, differs between the two species, but not 100% reliable.
Homeosoma, homeosoma, electellus, and Davis, we talked about it.
This is sometimes called the sunflower moth, or something.
So, I think it feeds on seeds of a number of, uh, composites.
And likely native, the ones in California look different than the ones in other parts of its, uh, its range.
Uh, and as I mentioned before, the ones that are gray,
rather than this kind of shiny, uh, tan color may be misidentified oslorellum, or, um, yet another species of, so there's some, but that's, it, nonetheless, it by far is the most common homeosoma in, uh, our area.
Home orthodes communis, um,
Um, I don't know much about it.
Um, I think they're all identified correctly.
Home ortho, these are noctuas, home orthodes hanami.
The ones out here have a subspecies name, and they don't look like hanami from other parts of the range, but, um,
they're easy, you know, once you recognize them, they're fairly easy to identify.
All right.
Thank you.
Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh.
Mr.
