All right, we are recording on December 18, 2024, so it might be good if we kept that information.
And we're ready to go, we're talking about Stubbins.
Ducantistanda is a true ecophore, and it's not one that was split off into depressarity.
It's a kind of yellowish-tan moth with gold spots and bars, so it's easy to recognize, at least in a fresh specimen.
And it was in a different genus, under a different name at one time, and it got split into a few species when they did the ecophore fascicle in the Mona series.
And this is the only species I found at Cold Canyon, and it turns up more frequently on the upper trail.
And that's the West Trail.
And I may be erroneous about this.
It may feed in either rotting wood or old logs, but there, there was a pile of dead wood, and that may have been the source of it being more common.
But I'd have to look up and see what's known about the host plant.
I don't know whether it's been reared.
The next two species in Ducotis are tortricis on oaks.
And what's unusual is Basiplegona and Fragariana.
Usually you have one but not the other.
But here we have both of them at Cold Canyon.
And whether they feed on the same oaks or not, I couldn't tell you.
And they're somewhat similar.
Basiplegona has more orangish on it, where the other one has various tones of gray and black.
But I think that I have recorded most of them accurately.
And this is one, you know, with the oaks having been burned out of Cold Canyon, it may plummet in numbers unless the oaks recover.
That's Diagramma?
The two Ducotis species.
Oh, Ducotis, got it.
Dicorda illustraria is one of those green geometrids.
And this is the largest species there, very distinct.
And it shows up in modest numbers over the years.
Looks like there's a gap here, but I never thought that it disappeared or anything.
Diagrammia californiaria.
All of the Diagrammia species that are somewhat similar to one another.
When the monofascical came out maybe four or five years ago, I did a lot of dissections.
And California area has various forms, but there's kind of a consistent character that enables you to identify it without doing dissections,
regardless of these different forms, regardless of these different forms.
And it makes some dark triangular marks along the leading edge of the forewings.
Leading when the wings are outshed, of course.
Ararada is the one that resembles Neptaria.
And Muscariata went under a couple of names previously.
And this is the one that we're using.
Neptaria is the one like Ararada.
Those plants are listed in that monograph.
I think all the species are native species.
But Nepensis is on conifers.
And it's in Davis, where there's no native conifers.
So it seems to either be naturally exploiting exotic plantings or it's getting introduced with them.
It's a Plymelata.
He's on willow.
I know that one.
And it used to be confused with another species.
And so in the early annual spreadseats, it's listed as aerobescence.
And one of the paratypes is from Cold Canyon.
And so we know that's a good one.
Diaryctria 4-di is a Pyrrolid in the Fisotines.
And it feeds on Pinus sabiniana.
And it's a large Diaryctria and very distinct from Muricae tivorella and the ones that resemble Muricae tivorella.
And I'll discuss that one next.
Recently, there was a paper that described some new species of Diaryctria with very subtle differences in genitalia.
And I have not re-examined to see whether what we're calling Fordi is one of the new species.
But Fordi was described from Mount Diablo, I believe.
And Mount Diablo, Cold Canyon is in an extension of what they call the Diablo Range.
So I think this is probably the right, the correct name of the species there.
But in any event, they're all distinct from the other Diaryctria, which is not the case for Muricae tivorella.
Muricae tivorella has kind of, it's various tones of gray and white and black.
Like many Fisotine pyrella feeds on conifers.
Muricae tivorella is Monterey pine.
But obviously there's no native Monterey pine in Cold Canyon.
Oh, goodness.
But it probably feeds on other pines as well.
And some of the ones that I called Muricae tivorella do have blurred patterns.
And I think that's a good name for them, where other ones don't.
And the key character that was given in the monograph that includes Diaryctria says raised scales on the forewings.
So with raised scales, they're AB, AB tivorella, Feeson, ABs.
And I think that raised scale character is not reliable, partially because they might get mashed flat or they get abraded.
So I'm not certain that everything that I've called Muricae tivorella or AB tivorella have been correctly identified.
So there's a problem there.
But AB tivorella seems to have a wide range of conifers as hosts.
Are they all listed under here, both the AB tivorella?
Well, the two that are similar, Muricae tivorella and AB tivorella,
I have, from time to time, combined them and then split them.
Okay, so AB tivorella might just be below the threshold of, like the number of sightings might be below the threshold of what we're seeing?
Or you used a version, which was before I decided to, before I tried to split them into two species.
The problem is, you know, I don't save every specimen that I collect.
But I think anything where there's a strong possibility of confusion,
if you analyze them as a single species, I think you need to annotate that there's a possibility that it includes more than one species.
Because the dynamics of those two species could be competitive.
Or it could be independent of one another.
So I don't know how specific Muricae tivorella is.
Obviously, it's not just a Monterey pine, because there's no Monterey pine out there.
And most of the pines here in Davis, which, where we get ones that mostly look like AB tivorella,
are, you know, like Italian stone pine and things like that.
So they're not even U.S. native species.
I just confirmed that they're not combined in the data set.
They're separate.
Okay.
Yeah, we'll deal with it.
There's another species there called Orantiaca.
And I would think that there was enough records of that, but it's not here.
And that one looks, it's rather than being, it's still a mottled moth, but it's kind of a rusty brown looking pattern.
It's rusty brown in coloration.
So it looks different than both these.
Fordi has brown on it, as well as blacks and grays.
Okay.
Plus, it's so much bigger than the other ones.
It's easy to identify.
So it's distinct, yeah, okay.
Got it.
Drasteria edler's eye is the most common of the several moths in that genus that I've collected at Gold Canyon.
And adults can be seen active during the day, as well as at night.
These are sometimes called false underwings because they're not Cotacola like the other, like true underwings.
But they do have colorful hindwings.
And they tend to be mostly smaller than all the Cotacola species.
And Edward's eye, Edward's Z eye, is the most common species by far.
And as I said, you see it active during the day.
It has a long flight season, so there might be multiple generations.
But it's hard to know.
Palisans is the second most common one.
And this one has a white underwing, whereas Edward's eye is kind of a deep yellow-orange hindwing.
Again, with those black markings similar to on a Cotacola true underwing.
And then there's a number of other species.
A couple of them I had trouble putting a name on, and I was happy to see they were synonymized.
And the new checklist.
Any of these moths that are colorful, you get a lot of amateurs collecting them.
And amateurs like to have lots of different names for them.
And that's why sometimes there's amateur mistakes made, instead of naming them on the basis of careful studies.
But experts make mistakes, too.
Trypanulatrix.
There's going to be several species of trypanulatrix.
I think they all feed on Cianothus.
There was a student in ecology one time, and she came out to Cold Canyon a few times.
And her proposed project was to see if there was some type of partitioning of Cianothus so that the various species were not in competition with one another.
Do you know what she found?
I don't think she survived graduate school.
But I don't remember her name off the top of my head.
Shapiro may remember her, but there was one time a former Shapiro student came to a seminar and walked up to Shapiro and shook his hand.
Shapiro didn't recognize him.
You can tell butterflies apart, but humans are tough.
Wagner told me that he thinks bifilata is more than one species.
But that remains to be seen.
He has opinions about a lot of things that, and I don't know what he bases that on, whether it's DNA or, oh, I went the wrong way.
But bifilata seems, it can be seen throughout the year.
So maybe more than one generation, I don't know.
Carniaria is another common species.
And some of them are similar to one another.
I can't swear that every one of them was identified correctly, but I did sometimes when I was uncertain about what species they were, dissect them.
Because there is a monograph, which Wagner doesn't think is very good, that has illustrations.
And the genitalia at least enables you to assign them to species following the concepts of the author of that earlier.
That was Fred Ringe did that.
And these are identified using the concepts there.
Falcateria is an early flying species, and it has falcate wingtips.
And so it's somewhat easy to identify.
And I don't know that many of these turned up in Davis, but a couple of them did.
Holsteiae, less common.
Monocaria is the other common, is the other one that shows up with some frequency in Davis.
And I get them from early in the year to very late in the year.
So long flights there.
Quadraria is a small species, and there's a name for the western one, a subspecific name for the western ones,
because there is, some of them look very different from the others.
Can I ask you a quick question, Grace?
So, for instance, this one is gray here, and it's red there.
My impression was that these colors were based on the modeling of the partial day positives,
which means they should be the same color.
Yeah, it's possible that, because I re-ran the models.
Right, okay, that's what I was wondering.
And my threshold was, like, 75%, so it's possible that this one was, like, 75% decline,
and this one was, like, 74% decline or something.
Got it.
So it switched into a new category.
Perfect.
I just wanted to make sure.
All right.
Luna calcarea is one that I record less often than the others.
Can we have a quick break here, John, so we can restart the recording?
