All right, recording number two, December 18th.
There are other species of Japanulatrix, and I think, you know, most of them are Western,
and I think all of them, even the ones that are not in our area, feed on various species of Cyanothis.
I just got through you in a calculator.
And there are some that are coastal,
and some of the specimens that I collected looked like one of the coastal species,
and I dissected a few of them, and they turned out not to be that species.
And then there's a Sierra one that's fairly common, and some of our individuals look like that.
So I think most of them are recorded correctly, but it's a difficult genus,
and I know that it's impossible to say that mistakes haven't been made.
It would be an outright lie, I think.
Dysareocrania auriciania is an areocrania,
so one of the most primitive families of Lepidoptera.
They call them mandibulate moths.
They don't have functional mandibles, but they have non-functional remnants of mandibles as adults.
It feeds on oaks.
They come to light.
I've got this species one time in my backyard.
And when you have to be there at just the right time to get them.
So I think there's probably fairly uniform, but they do.
It is a leaf mining species, so it could be subject to crashes due to parasitism from time to time.
But if you're there at the right time, sometimes there's quite a few on the sheet.
Do you mean right time of year or right time of night?
Right time when the adults are active at the right time of year.
They fly early in the year, which could account for absence in some years of the data.
But at one time I was looking to get some because Bob Kinsey was anxious to get some.
And like many moths, once you try to get them, they go into hiding.
There's one other area, Crineid species, that's less common at Cold Canyon, and it didn't make the list.
And I decided to change its identification at some point during the survey.
I think I've only got it two or three times.
Dystroma emancipated.
Dystroma is a difficult genus.
And adults are variable.
This could be more than one species.
And the smallest ones, Ron Neuschner, who identified a number of moths for me,
called the smaller ones by a different name.
I think Covelli, just the same as the street here.
And I'm not sure whether those are just runts of emancipated or they are a different species.
And I think that to be certain about identification requires dissections.
But it's very common moth, although not in Davis, and highly variable.
And I don't know where one species ends and another one begins.
And I've just been calling them emancipated because that was the first name that was given to me for ones of average size.
The gyra, there's several species here.
These are all early moths, I believe.
Early in the year?
They're winter moths.
The adults are active in the winter.
And I believe all of them feed on trees and shrubs.
And I believe all of these are native species.
How do they feed on trees and shrubs?
Is it evergreen trees and shrubs?
I think they're just external feeders.
And they just, they don't make shelters or anything.
Oh, because the caterpillars are not out, the adults are out.
Okay, I understand.
I mean, they're noctuits, so they're grub-like worms.
And Crucialis, there's a species that some illustrations look similar to Crucialis.
But, and people who have gone to Cold Canyon have sent me records of that similar-looking species.
But I'm not convinced, you know, in all the years I went there, I never collected that species.
And I'm not convinced that those reports that were given to me are correctly identified specimens.
Curialis is similar to a moth in a different genus, but once you learn to tell them apart.
Okay, but I could have made some mistakes in the early years.
But, you know, there's two problems there.
One, if they're similar to other moths.
And two, if they're winter moths, they may be under-collected.
Hemolus is the most common one.
And I started recording it much more frequently in Davis than I did in the early years.
And I think this last year, or 23, it was more common than ever before.
So, I don't know, when you see patterns like that,
I don't know whether it means they've become established in my neighborhood or that it's a population cycle.
Or because it's a winter moth, I just didn't have records.
Perlubins is fairly easy to identify.
Mariah Robinson did that paper where she reared a lot of moths in the McLaughlin Reserve.
And if you can dig out that paper, there's probably some host plant records for at least the macro moths.
Do you, there's this period before 2000 where you didn't see this.
Do you think that's a true, like they weren't there, or?
Well, this is an easily recognized moth.
But I think it's possible, too, that this is a moth that's much more common on the upper trail.
Okay.
Generally, in the early months, there's two places that I collect.
In the earliest years, I collected almost exclusively right at that log-in site on the lower trail.
But then when I realized it was so damn cold there in the winter months,
I started just collecting at the gate right at the highway.
And there, collecting was much better because all the cold air that's settling in the lower parts of the canyon
are further up the trail or down the trail, depending on whether you say down south and up north,
out west and back east.
So, the early years may be not represented because I was collecting in that colder locality.
And then even in recent years, I collected either at the lower gate or just inside the gate on the west trail,
you know, which is where I collected any time I collected on the west trail,
except for once or twice I went further up the trail.
I mean, that's kind of a problem you have with the data from Cold Canyon.
It's collected all over the place and, you know, little things make a difference.
If I put the sheet this way, I get different things.
And if I put it that way, even in the same smoke.
So, you know, when you're trying to get as many different species as you can, that's not important.
You just don't care how you got them.
You just want to add them to the list.
Agyra rubrica, I got once in Davis,
and it was periodically encountered in reasonable numbers at Cold Canyon,
but it was not one of the more common species.
And then there was one or two that I got only once or twice.
And I think those species tended to be more coastal,
and they occasionally spill over.
There's one called Febriolus, which is not here.
And that one, some years, it seemed to me, was in reasonable numbers.
The problem is, you know, if I only go there once during every half-month period,
it's not the same as going there ten times during that half-month period in a year when they're flying.
And that kind of gives you an erroneous indication of how common the species is.
Eidophasia vanilla used to be, it's in Plutality.
It used to be Plutella vanilla, which is much more fun to say than Eidophasia vanilla.
And its food plant is known, and it's in the literature.
I got this once in Davis, and it's a very distinct moth, brown and white,
kind of a harlequin pattern.
It's, you can't confuse it with anything else.
But it was always, it's one of these, it's kind of pleasing to see,
because it has a more colorful than a little brown or a little gray moth.
So I would tend to collect them when they did come to life,
and record them, and identify them correctly.
Amylina monodactyla is the pterophorid that feeds on Morning Glory
and that family of plants.
It's a variable moth, and I think it's a monotypic genus.
And I found an old key on that subfamily of pterophorids,
and it gave a character, an external character on the legs as diagnostic,
like a tuft of scales or something like that.
I'd have to look to see what it was.
But the moth itself varies from kind of a dingy white to a soft brown.
But once you get a feeling on it, but it could be confused with other species
and some of the other related pterophorid genera.
They're a place throughout the year.
And as I said before, it seems that pterophorids are not strongly attracted to light.
And so that is something that suggests that what you're saying here is what comes to light,
and it may underrepresent species that don't come to light.
That's why there's not many butterflies, and diurnal moth.
Endothenia hebezena is...
I think this is a...
Maybe it's an Olethrutine tortricid.
And I'm on the danger of confusing it with another species.
I think this is the one that's on paintbrush.
And I've reared it a number of times.
When I come to the other species, I'll look this up when I get...
Okay.
Look at your notes and make sure that I'm doing it right.
So I'm going to just quit at this point in discussing something.
Can you resume telling us which ones you know about, if they're native or non-native, or if you're unsure?
Yeah.
Because you're telling us sometimes, and I forgot to ask you.
Let me do it this way.
By default, I will point out non-native species if I know that they're non-native.
Okay.
But, you know, just the other day I was cleaning up some of the clutter in my house,
and I found a reprint of a paper that Jerry Powell wrote on Bactra.
Remember, that was the Torturism that Feeds on Reeds.
And the title of the paper was,
New Species of Bactra, One Possibly Non-Native.
So he speculated that one of those species was non-native.
It was not any of the ones that we collected.
There was another interesting story about one of those species, but I won't talk about it now.
Ephesia cuneiello, I discussed at Davis.
Okay.
We can skip it.
It declined greatly in numbers in Davis in recent years, and I don't know why that is.
It's either, but it could be, you know, these are physitines, and they're all similar to one another.
And I may have misidentified some as this species in the beginning and then learned that they were something else,
but that's speculation.
All these surveys were a learn-it-should-go type of thing for me.
So, Ephesiodes erythrella is not the false raisin moth, as you wrote down here,
but it's in the same genus as the false raisin moth.
Okay.
The false raisin moth is the next one, Gilda Centella.
Okay.
And erythrella is a darker moth with some brick red coloration on it.
And it shows up in modest numbers some years and not at all in other years.
So I think this is real.
It's one that, once I realized that the ones that had this brick red coloration and were darker would not Gilda Centella,
I was able to record accurately from then on.
And I determined that fairly early in the survey, and I did some dissections and made slides,
which you need to do to see the subtle differences in genitalia and confirm that we have both species.
But Gilda Centella is the most common moth in Davis and one of the most common small moths at Coltenham as well.
This is one, I think I told you this story before, that sometimes I've had individuals in my relaxer
where I put things before I spread them, and they lay eggs even though they're dead.
Dead? That's crazy.
And then those caterpillars get out and eat the other moths.
So I think these species of erythrella are kind of scavengers and opportunistic feeders.
Detritus scavengers, stored product foods.
So occasional pests, but they're not as serious as things like Indian meal moth and the other pantry moths.
There's Epinodia emarginana.
There's several species of epinodia here.
Emarginana feeds on oaks.
And it's recognizable because the edges of the wigs, extreme edge of the wigs,
the apical edge of the wigs, have an indentation.
They're emarginate.
That's where the name comes from.
But there's another species on mountain mahogany, Cercocarpus, that also has that notch.
And Cercocarpus is kind of up on, mostly up on the west-facing slope.
So, I did collect some larvae on Cercocarpus and reared them.
But the problem is, sometimes they spin down from oaks and pupate on other things.
But Powell confirmed that I do have the species from Cercocarpus as well.
I think it's Cercocarpana, strangely enough.
And marginana is, it seems to emerge in late spring, early summer.
That's when you get really fresh-looking individuals.
But you get adults year-round, including, you know, I found them in my house on New Year's Day one time.
You know what?
So, they overwinter as adults and then lay their eggs in just before the new flush of leaves on live oaks, especially.
Are they, um, miners?
Pardon me?
Are they miners?
No, they're leaf.
Tortrissas.
Leaf rollers.
Most tortrissas are leaf rollers.
But this is in the oaks rutines.
And oaks rutines tend to have more internal feeders than do the tortricines, the other, one of the other sub-famines.
Okay.
