Are you good to go?
Mm-hmm.
Okay, Nematicampa bremiata.
Uh-oh. Okay, we're good.
It's a geometrid, distinct, so all should be recorded.
Nemoria, there's three species listed here, and those are the green geometrids.
I love those ones.
Over there, brother.
Darwiniata has a similar-looking species.
They fly at different times of the year, called Glaucomarginaria,
and I've only got that a few times.
And Wagner likes this group.
He's trying to get larvae for them.
And he tells me that Polcorrhima, which is the third species listed here,
is more than one species.
And along the coast, you get some that aren't green.
They're kind of reddish, but you get both green ones mixed in with the brownish-red ones.
So I think he's basing that decision on having done some DNA on them, but I don't know.
So what I've listed here is Polcorrhima, or one species, but it might not be Polcorrhima in the future.
And it's the one that flies earliest in the year, so it's a winter, early spring moth.
So you can miss it some years if you don't have collection days.
It's Neo-Alsis, California area, another geometrid.
It has kind of square-looking...
Yeah, there are, but I'm not in there.
So it can be confused with other species, but because it flies at a different time of the year than the ones that it's similar to...
I believe they're all recorded correctly.
It's a variable moth.
But, you know, browns and grays and blacks, so it's not particularly memorable.
Yes, I would say...
Noctua pronuba, we've discussed.
It showed up in our area in 2002, so it's not here in the early years.
Noa minna is a noad.
Fairly distinct.
I think there's another species.
Well, there's meganoa, and then one other.
There's, there are in different genera, so.
I believe all are recorded correctly.
I don't know what the food plant is, but it's probably known if you do a search.
Noamania duodecim lineata.
Recently, generic change.
It's a small geometra that feeds on oaks and common in the early months of the year.
Sometimes, some years more common than others.
Noamania piercellae, same genus as the larger moth.
And, um...
Quite different from duodecim lineata in the pattern, but similar to some other species.
Nictiola cenariana is a...
I don't know what.
That's all I'm going to say.
Orgaea vitusta.
There were two species in the monograph, which was one of the early monographs, you know, from back in the 70s, or maybe even before that.
And vitusta and another species were differentiated by having bulging eyes or not having bulging eyes.
And now those two species have been synonymized.
And I think vitusta is the best name for what the very common tussock moth is in our area.
So, that's family Lyman treidae.
Orthonaema obstipata, I talked about in Davis.
Orthosia.
There's several species of orthosia.
Orthosia ortholitis, with an A, is the only species that flies in our area in the fall to early winter.
All the other ones, they may emerge in late fall to early winter, but they fly later than ortholita.
And I don't know, I think all of these feed on trees and shrubs, but I don't know too much about it.
Berenziana.
I'm trying to see what's there.
Berenziana and I think it's Pacifica.
Berenza.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Which is interesting now.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
Berenziana.
very late in the end of the year and then continues into the beginning months of the next year.
Pacifica, I mentioned before, pre-seas is one that's variable, but it has a distinct
color of a different color, so it's easy to recognize.
There's one that's not listed here called Transparence. It looks like another species
which has been recorded from McLaughlin and Quail Ridge, but I never saw it at Cold Canyon,
so there's potential for another Orthosia here. It's one that I would like to see a monograph on
because they're kind of confusing. Per abogrodus unidentified. This is a listing for early
specimens that I didn't retain because later what we had been calling Rhynchogrodus exertus stigma
was separated into several different species.
Some were raised out of synonyms. So early moths that I didn't retain I couldn't identify, but the early
moths that I did retain were either Formalis or Insularis. And I talked about these then in
Davis and the same situation was true in Davis.
Pila Christa canana was listed under several names
and it is a tortricid, an Olathrutine tortricid. I don't know what it feeds on,
but variable enough so that Powell gave me several names for it. But there was a monograph recently that
clarified the situation and I've been using the name for all the ones in this group of species.
I think it feeds on sage, but I'm not certain about that. The hard desert types of sages and not the,
you know, soft-leafed ones.
Gotcha.
Pila Christa Ibarata feeds in the roots of, in the root crown of coyote bush.
Pila Christa and it's occasionally in Davis. This went blank. Does that mean anything or?
Uh, nope. We're still good. We're still recording.
Okay. Power save mode.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
Paradromus sages in Davis. We talked about it.
Paragonica. I've recorded two species there.
Polkmaier has been using different names for at least one of them, and I think both of them.
One of them, the male has serrate antennae, and then the other species, the male has filiform antennae.
And the females all have filiform antennae, so I kind of match the females up to the males and
assign them to these different names. But there could be more species, and these names may not be
correct. And it could be that some individuals were identified incorrectly. It could be that all of
them are identified. But it could be that some female tertia are actually female angelata in the
way that I'm using it, and vice versa.
Pyromycin.
I mentioned this before. Wagner thinks that the western species are all occidentalists,
and the late flying ones are a bit smaller and darker than the early flying ones. So there's a gen,
there are generations, and they're slightly different in coloration. And I think this variability
is why there's too many names. But the, there was a monograph on Pyro, and they couldn't
differentiate the western species on the basis of genitalia. And it may be because they're just one
variable species.
Petrophila halus callus, or Confus salus. These are the ones that I could, before I knew how to separate
the two species, this is where I put the ones that I didn't retain, that I didn't identify.
And there seems to be about equally abundant.
And I talked about those previously.
Although it looks like Confus salus.
Didn't make the list.
Didn't make the list. So I guess Halley's callus is more
common that, or maybe they both didn't make, oh here it is.
It's more common there.
Farinay sub-punctata. Farinay is a fairly large genus. And over the years, I was given several
different names for them, all of which are plausible. They're difficult to identify. And I haven't bothered
to dissect them because I have no illustrations to separate them. But I've saved quite a few of them. But
I suspect there's at least two species and possibly more. And many are reported from this area.
Phygalia plumogeraria feeds on adenostoma. The female is flightless. It's just a big,
big blob. And the males have extremely plumocentani, very feathery looking. And they fly early in the year.
And the females, of course, don't fly at all.
Phobolosia amphracta is a kind of attractive looking noctuaid, or a rivet, I guess. And
so all of them would have been recorded. And because it's kind of a spiffy looking species,
I have a tendency to collect most of the ones that come to the sheep.
Okay, this one here should read Phobos or Telethusia. The caption is partly obscured on the printout.
Yeah. And as you saw in that, I started to identify some of the unidentified specimens that I retained.
And the ones that I didn't identify, I think, are a mixture of Phobos and Sertus and maybe a few Telethusia.
But I think Telethusia is fairly uncommon at the Culp Canyon.
But I think this was mostly early specimens that I didn't identify.
Once I dissected enough of them, I could see subtle differences between the species.
And one or two of them are easy to identify. The other one's not so easy.
But we seem to have all the Phobos species there are known at Culp Canyon.
The Physetodes musidela we discussed. But I think that I have included in here some specimens of Baphyla aramiata.
Because there's more variability in the specimens I retained than there should be.
And I mentioned that before, that Baphyla is similar.
And Baphyla is the one that feeds on scales. And Physetodes feeds on, it's known to feed on
seeds of composites, flower heads of composites. Probably feeds on other things as well.
Philodesma americana is a Lyman triad.
And there was some confusion about the names, but in the checklist, the ones that it was confused with is now synonymized.
That's good.
That solved that problem.
Frutella xylastella is diamondback moth, and you know, that's everywhere.
But there are similar looking species that could be confused with it.
I don't believe that I've confused it with it, but there's always a possibility
to tell it.
Frutella xylastella is a geometrid in Davis as well, feeds on coyote bush.
And there was an Australian here who was investigating it as a candidate for biocontrol of coyote bush in Australia.
Frutella xylastella is common, easily identified, but does look a little bit like suffusive.
But if you see them side by side, you know they're different species.
Frutella xylastella is different.
This is a gray species.
The other two are brown.
These are all Nocturids.
Procerpinus lucidus is a sphinged, flies in the winter,
has very green to greenish forewings and orange hindwing, very distinctive moth.
It was, for years, a collector's prize because people didn't know that it flew in the winter.
But once they figured out that it flew in the winter, they collected a lot of them.
Females seldom come to light, so almost all the specimens in collections are males.
But as it happened, the first one I ever got was a female.
And there's protangery.
The males fly earlier than the females.
And they disappeared for a long time.
And then the last year that I was there, I got two specimens.
So they're not gone.
I just, I think they have population cycles.
And they feed on...
Oh, what's the family?
Oh, you can look it up.
Proxenus mendara, we talked about before.
There could be two species.
I don't, I don't know.
The males are supposed, of these two species, mendara and miranda.
And as you'll notice, those are anagrams of one another, which they sometimes do when you have similar species.
The males have different antennae, but I don't know what they're supposed to look like.
So I've called them, um, mendara because that was the name that Ron Robertson gave me.
But he kind of shrugged and said, mendara, I guess, but it flies over a long period of time and
seems to have big fluctuations in abundance.
I'm going to pause the recording.
Okay.
