beginning, but here we go. So we left off at Diagramia Nepensis. I'm sorry, which one? Diagramia
Nepensis. So were we on Cold Canyon or were we on Davis? We're still doing Davis. I was looking
through Cold Canyon and you were simultaneously looking at the... Oh yeah. Oh. So do I have those?
Yes, I do. That's right. Well, you can have Cold Canyon then like we were doing before. Okay, yeah.
And if you want to go back and go through the species we skipped over now, we could do
it now or we could do it after we finish. Let's do it after. Yeah. So we can just keep going
the way we were because we were making good progress. Okay, that makes sense. There was
a monograph on Diagramia and I think I told you the date of that, but if you go to the
Moth Photographers Group, many times there is a link or a list of references you consult.
Okay. So on many species that I don't know about, you can look on Moth Photographers Group
and it'll direct you to a reference that might give you information that you'll find useful.
I'm hoping Sandy comes in today. I've brought in the Turkish cookbook.
You also would be able to confirm or refute some of the things that my failing memory might have gotten wrong.
So we're at Diagramia and Nepenza. And you were making notes on this, the electronic version, right?
Yeah. Okay. And the reason I mention that is because there's a monograph on Diagramia. In it, the known hosts are reported.
Nepenza is in a group of conifer feeding Diagramia. And as you know, there's no native conifers in the valley, so it's feeding on ornamentals, most likely.
And we have ornamental pines in my neighborhood, plus other people of various conifers in the neighborhood.
So all Diagramia are non-native?
No, Nepenza specifically. One of these is on Lotus. I don't remember. One's on Willow. They're on various hosts.
And whether they're specific or not really depends on what's been reported.
So you have to consider that everything is subject to further information.
And unfortunately, you know, Powell didn't publish most of his rearing records.
He reared, he says in that in a peanut paper that he had 12,000 larval collections at the time he published that.
Wow.
So there's a lot of data that he didn't report when Gaden Robinson was compiling his database.
Nepenza's feeds on conifers. That seems to be pretty clear.
But the species in the Nepenza's group of species, the conifer feeding ones, are variable and they're very difficult to identify.
And apparently the genitalia are not diagnostic.
And whether DNA can separate the species or not, I can't tell from reading the Mona Fasca.
So which are the ones that are hard to identify?
Digramia Nepenza's we're talking about now. The conifer feeding one.
And that's the only one that feeds on conifers?
Yes.
Okay.
And Greg and Folker Heinrich, who's, you know, collects in this area, they have listed more species in this group than I have.
But Folker's not comfortable with his identification because he's not content with the work that was done in the fascicle.
I could go on about that, but I won't.
Ectomyelois serotonii was an invasive species.
And I think it first showed up a year, I think Greg got one specimen a year before I got my first specimen.
Then we had a couple of years when I got around 20 or so.
And then it's been declining in numbers since then.
One of the common names is the locust beam moth.
So I guess it feeds on locust.
Another one is the carob moth.
So it was known from Florida and then Southern California before it turned up here.
And it took me several years to identify it and I finally found it in a paper on Chinese moths.
And I said, oh, that's our moth.
But it was in the literature, but I didn't think we had it here because it was only known from Florida and Southern California at the time.
So it might have moved north.
The last year or two, I haven't gotten it, so.
Okay.
Greg, though, has reported it, but he could be wrong.
I need to see many of his moths in order to come.
He's coming in later today, actually, with things he collected this year.
Amelina monodactyla is a pterophorid that feeds on morning glory.
It's quite variable, quite common.
Pterophorids in general do not seem to be strongly attracted to light.
So you don't get them unless you're somewhere near a host plant.
They don't seem to stray very far either, but they get around nonetheless.
The Festia Cuniella, I think, has a common name and I think it's a somewhat polyphagous.
You know, all these categories we have for journalists, specialists, monophagous, polyphagous,
I think they're trying to pigeonhole things that are more complicated than simple categories.
And I haven't detected it in recent years, so this is one that seems to come and go.
A Festia Cuniella, you mean?
Yeah.
It looks like you did, right?
Well, I don't know.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Yeah, maybe ones or zeros.
I don't know.
But some years it's more common than others.
And I think I get it more frequently at Cold Cannon than I do at Davis.
All of these Fisotines are difficult to identify.
They're all, most of them are gray and white, gray, black, and white.
Some have some brown.
But they're all kind of drab.
They're different kind of size categories of all of them.
You can break them into two separate groups on the basis of wing venation without doing dissection.
And that kind of narrows your search down.
But, you know, one of the species that I identified just yesterday is new to this area.
But a nearly identical species was reported by Bill Patterson at Quail Ridge.
So I need to check to see if those are correctly identified now.
Mm-hmm.
The Fisotines, Gilbastatella, I think it's called the false raisin moth or something like that.
I think it's a scavenger.
And, in fact, from time to time, if I catch a specimen and put it in my relaxer, and it's a female,
sometimes they lay eggs after they're dead.
And the larvae that come out will eat other moths that are in the relaxer with it.
So it probably scavenges on various dead plant and animal material.
God, the amount of stuff that's in your brain, John.
Even though it's known as a stored product.
So, like, you had a big area of, like, no collecting it here?
That doesn't make sense to me because it's the most common moth in Davis.
I have 20,000 specimens plus.
But is that true for Cold Canyon?
I think it's fairly common at Cold Canyon, but it might be the most common species there of Fisotide moth there, but I don't know.
I'll go back through my data.
You know, the Cold Canyon data in general needs a more, you know, it needs to be updated the same way that I did with the Davis data.
I thought it was.
No.
Well, that's why we were linking the names and everything.
And the Davis data, all of the names are in order in the same, and they're, like, all harmonized.
But that's not the case.
We made a list of synonyms, which were mostly errors that were on the various annual spreadsheets.
But I did not go back and correct all the mistakes in the annual spreadsheets, nor have I done it yet on the summary data sheet.
But if you've made the corrections to the names, your data is probably in better shape than mine.
Oh, okay.
So yours is further along?
At least the names are in better shape than mine.
Okay.
I mean, I was only working on making that STEM son, a summary of what's going on there.
Oh, I understand.
Okay.
And I was less concerned about the annual data.
Got it.
Okay.
Why am I sending you a picture of chin?
The achromius we've discussed over and over again.
And the achromius ocellia and californicalis are variable in abundance.
This year was a big year for ocellia.
Last year I dissected every ocellia that I collected, every achromius that I collected, and all were ocellia.
This year I found one californicalis among all of those that I collected.
They were down.
And early in the year, ocellia was doing well, but later in the year it petered out.
Yeah.
This year in general, the season seemed to be early.
Mm-hmm.
Not only did things show up earlier, but they petered out earlier.
Mm-hmm.
So whether that's due to the, I think it's probably because July was so hot.
You know, it was record heat in July.
As we go through, can you tell us when you know a species is non-native?
Have you been telling us every time?
If it's an introduced species?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I'll mention it at the time.
Some of these it's not known, you know, because they've been around for so long.
Eudonia, Spencer Rye, it's been collected consistently, but its abundance is inconsistent from year to year.
And I'm not sure what this one feeds on, but it's in one of the monofascicles, so it might be reported.
That's so weird.
Is it, do you know if it's native or not?
It appears to be native.
Oh, okay.
And the other species, the one that's common at, um, called Canyon, Rectilinia.
Rectilinia.
I think that one feeds on oaks.
But I would need to verify that.
No, it was inexplicable.
Also native?
Or presumed native?
Who or what this came from.
I'm sorry?
Rectilinia?
Also, yeah.
Right, okay.
It seems to be only in the west.
So, uh, most introduced species are fairly widely distributed.
Right.
And that is not.
Eupathisia mendicata, um, or similar species.
This, the eupathisia part is truncated on mine.
Oh, it's cut off.
Oopsie.
What?
Uh, it's this, it's this genus.
No, it's mendicata.
Yeah, that's genus.
That's the genus.
Oh.
That's navadatta, though.
But it's that genus.
That's the genus.
That's navadatta, though.
But it's that genus.
So, I think it's misspelled.
Right.
I think it needs an E right here.
Yeah.
That's why this is showing up.
Yeah, there needs to be an E.
This is navadatta.
That's why it's on order.
That's why it's on order.
I don't know.
This is a picture of a baby.
I tell you, I'm a master of typos.
I mean, it might have been on our end.
I sent some of these to Cliff Ferris, who wrote a recent monograph on eupathisia.
Yeah.
And these are formerly in another genus, which has now been lumped with eupathisia.
And he disagreed that they were Mandicata, but when I dissected them, they match the genitalic
illustrations better than what he thought they were.
So, that's why, or similar species.
And there may be more than one species included in this.
I don't know what it feeds on.
However, Mariah Robinson reared similar moths on adenostoma, which we don't have here in Davis.
So, it probably feeds on adenostoma and other.
That's a rosaceae, I believe.
Is it presumed native?
Almost certainly, yeah.
And I would think probably, I can't speculate on whether it's so specific or not.
There's an old monograph by McDonough on eupathisia that can be downloaded off the internet.
And the link is on the Moth Photographers group.
And then a more recent one that's available that Ferris did.
But Ferris didn't discuss life history information the same way that McDonough did.
Okay.
Eupathisia Miserulata.
I don't know that I have that from Cold Canyon.
You don't.
You don't.
You have Miserulata.
I think here in Davis is probably feeding on sunflowers.
Oh, that M.
Hi.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I was like, didn't we already say M?
Yeah.
You don't go by M, right?
People call me all kinds of stuff.
Oh, okay.
At my house.
Probably feeding on sunflowers, which my neighbor grows every year.
And it's known, however, from other composites.
And this year I got two in my yard after not getting any for a while.
Miserulata seems to be more polyphagous.
Plus it has a much longer flight season than most of the other Eupathisia.
There's a number of early species, some midsummer and maybe some late species.
But Miserulata is found throughout the years.
There's a very different looking moth that has a similar looking genitalia that's found on the coast.
And I think they might be different forms of the same moth, but I don't know that for certain.
I don't think that anybody has done DNA scans of these.
Which is unfortunate.
Ferris had access to the types, but I don't think he had the ability to do DNA analyses.
Euzola septentrionalis is similar to a lot of other euzola species.
And so there's a possibility that errors have been made here.
I got the original identification from Ron Robertson, who was very careful to tell me whether he was certain or uncertain about the identification.
So he was fairly confident that these were correct.
And just recently, it's really exploded in numbers here in Davis.
But I got some that look a little bit strange this year, and I'm halfway through the dissections.
And they may turn out to be a different species.
Did they arrive here, you think, in Davis?
No, I don't think they arrived here.
I just, that I first detected them in 2005 and didn't get them.
And this could be, this is a late flying species.
Oh.
So it could be that I just wasn't collecting late enough in the year to detect them.
Your data should account for that though, right?
Because you're looking at the flight window.
Mm-hmm.
The common collection window.
Yeah, for the common, yeah, this is for, this is for the full data set, but the common collection window would catch that.
Okay, good.
We're just making sure we have a catch for that in the analysis.
Yeah.
Yuzoa is a difficult genus, but there was a somewhat recent monograph on it.
However, I have sent photographs of specimens that I couldn't identify to the person who wrote the monograph, and he's given me the wrong identifications on them.
Jesus Christ.
Yes.
Same thing happened with a friend who worked on an endemic fly at a hot, a local hot spring.
You know, and he sent them to the person who described it for confirmation, and he identified it as something else.
And then when he said, well, I thought, and he said, oh, I forgot about that species, so.
Mm-hmm.
You're just gonna have to never die, John.
If you don't work on things all the time, you know, the whoosh, the names come and go.
That's why, in a way, it's better to collect from one place all the time than a lot of places once in a while.
Yeah.
Sounds like it.
Okay.
I turned the wrong, moving the wrong direction here.
Okay.
Feltia subterranea is, I think it has a common name.
It's a common name.
It's a common species.
Is it a pest?
And many of these, I think it has sometimes a pest.
Granulate cutworm.
Sounds crusty to me.
Yeah.
So it's a cutworm.
So it's probably, it's a generalist.
I think it's sometimes gets in lawns and, but mostly it's a cutworm and it probably is an occasional, but not a major pest.
It's variable and some individuals look like other species.
But this has a very bright white hindwing and I base my identifications as much on the hindwing color and brightness as the forewing where most of the pattern is.
So I think most have been identified correctly.
Far more common in Davis than at Cold Canyon, which is the case for most of these pest species of Noctuits.
So it's a Noctuit.
Philatoma species.
Philatoma, like Cayennotes, is a fairly large genus that needs revisions.
I don't know if this is one species or more, and I don't know whether it's the same species as the ones I'm calling B or C.
A few philatoma that I've collected have been identified, but I don't, I haven't ventured to identify the ones from Davis.
I only got a couple of them this year, and I called one species A and one species B, but whether they're different species, I don't know.
I've dissected a number to confirm that they're philatoma.
Males are easy to identify, but females look like females of morphologically similar species, but, and you need to look at the genitalia to be certain what they are.
Fercula cneroides was originally recorded as cneria, and I think all of the species names have been modified to reflect the new thinking on this, the cneroides.
Feeds on willows, I believe.
So any decline in my yard might be attributable to my cutting the willow tree down in my yard.
This one, it's in decline in, um, stubs too. Cnerioides?
Yeah, Fercula is the genus cnerioides, and it used to be cneria, c-i-n-e-r-e-a.
Yeah, that's not even here.
And in that recent monophacicle, um, several subspecies were upgraded to full, were given full species status.
Yeah, it looks like it's declining.
But, you know, Wagner was a co-author, and he doesn't agree with some of the decisions that were made, and I don't know, uh, whether they were fingerprinted or not.
I love the Fercula caterpillars, because they have little tails.
Oh!
They're so cute.
This, it's the natadonids, and natadonids are known as prominents.
And that's because the larvae tend to be prominent.
Cool.
I always wondered why they were called that.
Yeah.
They refer to the larvae that way, I mean, usually, but I've seen it.
Yeah.
So, that's one that's in decline both in Davis and in stebs, it looks like.
Well, it could be, yeah.
Yeah, you know, the fires, the fires are more damaging to trees and shrubs than they were to, uh, you know, the annuals and the, some of the perennials endure fire, you know, they stump shoot and they come back.
So, whatever, the willows at Cold Canyon are in the stream bed, mostly.
So, those were protected from fire pretty well.
So, those would have been preserved, yeah.
But, I, I have a sense that large moths, in general, go through longer population cycles of, um, decline and increase than do smaller moths.
But, maybe that's just because I've, you know, they're, they're easier to collect and see.
Have aander.
Yeah.
That's because it's within a few years like dozens of them are good at school, I solve it for-
That's great.
Right.
So, there's one for me to tell theassio where, you know.
You don't know how much of again this disease.
Surely not something that has failedcho.
I, uh, go through this as well.
Having這個 solve the problem begins.
Urine, probably, obviously, were your decision.
Do you?
