throat. Okay, we have started again. So I'm going to skip right by these, except that
for a species seven, I rear from that roost trilobeta, you know, the little shrubby roost
that's there in Cold Canyon. So I have not seen ones that look exactly like this in Davis,
but we don't have roost trilobeta. Did you rear it from a leaf or something? How'd you rear it?
Well, I found the larvae kind of silk-tied some leaves, but they don't make big feeding shelters
the same way that tortricids do, which are often very tightly rolled. But many Gellicheas do make
similar type of feeding structure, you know, but it varies from species to species. Some of them are
internal, some of them are flowers and so forth. But these, I'm pretty sure I just collected the
foliage because I could see leaves, silk-tied leaves. And, you know, the same is true of
that aprorhima on lotus. You can see the leaves tied together.
This thing that says large reddish brown, this is, I believe, a, what's the genus?
It starts with A, obviously.
Aroga or?
What is it?
A-R-O-G-A.
Aroga, yes. It's an aroga.
Aroga, and it resembles this species here, but I don't remember what, that I put here,
aroga, but I don't remember whether it resembles it in the genitalia or in the coloration or
pattern and so forth.
You said genitalia on the note.
Does it say genitalia? Okay.
Okay.
I get the truncated version.
Yeah.
Arta epicinalis is a crambid. I don't know very much about the life history.
There are similar-looking crambids, but it's not in Davis. This is very common, and, you
know, I could have confused some of the similar-looking species with Arta, and there's another species
of Arta, but I'm pretty sure this is the correct, at least one other species that's reported
from this area, but Jerry agrees with me that this is the correct name for it.
Aseptus. All of the Aseptus and related genera were the subject of a revision during the course
of this survey, and I had used specimens in the collection here as the reference for putting
names on them, and it turned out I was wrong in many respects, and it turned out in the
revision there were some erroneous things put there. Like they said one of the species is
a Southern California species, but it's the most common species at Davis and extends much
further north of Davis, so I don't know what's wrong. But, you know, I did some dissections.
A lot of the names were changed and reassigned and everything, and I straightened them out
as best as possible. But there were some that I couldn't identify, and they're in this
bionotata or adnexta, and the reason I couldn't identify them is I didn't have those specimens
on hand anymore. I had assigned names to them based on my pre-revision concepts, and I only
then went back and entered the data for ones that I retained. So, early years, before revision,
pre-revision, there may be underrepresented here. But, except for perfumosa and one that,
perfumosa is the one that I was talking about that's not a Southern California species.
All of these are native. It feeds on chemise, I think, adenostoma, if I remember correctly.
And, um, a septus fumosus, which is very similar to it, also feeds on it. And the author of the
revision said that that's the species we have here. But, you know, after I dissected a number
of them, I couldn't find it until very recently I found two specimens of fumosus that fly a little
bit later than perfumosa. But, they didn't qualify for your list because I only have those two records.
Aspilla prunivora is also in Davis. And this is a occasional pest of, it's a tortricid leaf roller,
occasional pests and orchard crops.
All of the reported hosts, until recently, were, um, cultivated fruits, you know, like prunes and peaches
and that sort of thing. And then, there was a paper that I reviewed, um,
saying that they collected it on a native prunus. And I think that was the first published,
I don't know where the paper got published, the first published record or non-published record
of a native host. And it was collected in the Sierra. So, um,
it suggests that this is a native species that is exploiting, exploiting, uh, orchard crops.
And, uh, I think it has a common name, but I don't know what it is off the top of my head.
Autographic Californica is at Davis and we discussed it earlier, but it,
it's a native species. And speaking of Bruce Hammock, you know, he was using, uh,
something from, he was trying to engineer something that had to do with Autographic Californica
for one of his, uh, for, uh, pesticidal usage, but I don't remember what it was. Or there was something
that I think there's a toxin that was. Okay. So it's not just a
pest species, but it's a laboratory. Do you know what its host is? Yeah, it feeds on a lot of things.
Okay. But I think the common name is alfalfa semiluper or something. Oh, okay. It's an
herbidae. Right. I remember talking about that one. Bectra veritana is in Davis feeds on sedges.
And it's a tortricid. Another,
another, a tortricid specialist looked at the array that I had here in the collection
and speculated that were two species. But Jerry Powell, who did describe some species
of Bectra, disagreed and says that they're all veritana, except for two that I got, two or three
that I got in Davis, but not at Cold Canyon. It looks like it might have population cycles, maybe.
Yeah, it could be. Um, under one of my trees, I have a coarse grass that, um, you know, I haven't
looked, but it dies back every year and it could be a sedge. But again, sedges, if they're anywhere,
they're going to be in that drainage ditch along, um,
was it not Russell, the next one, uh, the one that turns into Road 32? Covell. Covell.
I would think that they're in the drainage ditches that haven't been filled in of where they'd be.
And also West Davis Pond, which is only a block from my house. And West Davis Pond goes dry now.
The ditches are getting filled in, particularly now that they're developing that lot next to, uh,
the hospital. So, so maybe that's why these are, but one year it was particularly common and that shows
up there. But, um, um, it's never been as common at, um, at Cold Canyon. And, um,
you know, there I would expect that the sedges are going to be along the creek. And,
you know, what, so I would expect to get more of them down on the lower trail than I would on the east
trail. So is this one native or? Probably native. Yeah. Okay. Probably.
Baphila arameella. I mentioned before, this is the one, this is a physitine pyralid
that's larvae feed on scale insects. So cool. And, um, a lot of physit, a lot of groups of physitites
look very similar to one another. And this is one that I seem to have several of them mixed in with
what I call physitites, Musadella. Um, I saved a lot of them, but I need to revisit the ones that I've
identified as physitites to see whether I underestimated and under-recorded Baphila,
which could explain why there's so many later records and so few early records.
It was difficult to identify even after dissecting it because it has kind of a,
I hate to use the word nondescript genitalia. Nondescript is an oxymoron, you know,
because you're using it to describe something. But, um, Bidalia, I spoke of before this feeds on
morning glories, including sweet potato. Uh, and, um, it's interesting because it's a tiny,
it's one of those tiny moths that flies in cold months as well as sporadically throughout the year.
Larvae are leaf miners. It may be imported. It's the, I think it's the only member of its
family. And, you know, because it feeds on sweet potato, maybe it was introduced with
some kind of sweet potato. Um, but it's widely distributed. Can,
when you grow sweet potatoes in a greenhouse, it can reach kind of pest status. It's a leaf miner
for most, it's a leaf miner that exits the leaf to make a cocoon that's in a hammock.
And then it turns into adults. And I think there's just one generation per year,
but the adults are around all year. So it could be that there's more than one generation.
Okay. Borkhausenia nephrax.
This, this is, um, a true
Ecophorid, Ecophorid-y, O-E, Ecophorid-y. You know, most of them were split off and put into
depressority. And there is a monograph. You can find out more about the life history, but I have a
sense that this is an occasional nuisance and maybe a pest. And whether it's native or not,
I can't speculate, but it may be in the monograph. You know, the earlier monographs in the Mono series are downloadable.
So, um, you know, we paid a fortune for them when we were younger and now they're free.
But everything else has gotten more expensive. So I guess it's
Bryotrophahajazae is one of two, this is a Gallicaid. It's one of two, um, species in our area,
but the other one seems to be more coastal, but they're so similar to one another that you can't
be absolutely sure without dissecting them. And I dissected an enormous number of them. I saved
every one for the longest time. And they look like many of the common, um, Gallicaids that have, um,
overlapping wings that are more flat rather than gable roof, not gable, but, uh, peaked roof-like.
So they're, so Cyanotes and Aroga and some of those other genres.
But it has a bristle at the base of the antenna, which you can see under high magnification
that allows you to identify them without, identify the genus without dissecting them. So I put a lot
of them aside. And during the course of this survey, these two authors described a number of new species.
And all the ones I described turned out to be this one species, or I dissected turned out to be this
one species. And it appears the other one in Northern California is coastal. So I think this is the only
one they have, but it's possible the other one is here. Looks like that one might cycle too, huh?
Pardon me? It looks like this one might be cycling. Could be. I don't know the host plant.
You know, with all small moths, they're easy, you know, because they're small,
because a number of them are internal feeders.
They can be easily transported, you know, and overlooked. And most of them are not pest species.
So it's hard to say whether they're native or non-native. But I would suspect
smaller moths don't seem to disperse as much as larger moths in general, but not in particular,
necessarily. So I would say that small moths are most small moths are probably native species.
Most of them are somewhat specialists.
But like all generalities, there are numerous exceptions.
And a lot of what I just said is speculation.
I added a lot of probabilities.
Do you have that paper evolution of larval food plants that Powell wrote?
Probably in the 70s. It was in the...
I'll write it down now.
It's called Evolution of Larval Food Plants.
Of Lepidoptera, I think.
I'd like to read that.
It's in the ESA.
What's their kind of larger papers?
Ecological Entomology?
No, in the ESA, Entomological Society of America, has...
Annual review.
Pardon me?
Annual review.
Annual review.
I don't know.
Annals.
Annals of the...
Oh, okay.
Oh, did you find the paper?
I think so. Evolution of Larval Food Preferences...
Yeah, that's the paper.
And I think as an ecologist, it would be a good paper.
Could you send that to me?
And as an ecologist working on Lepidoptera, it would be a good one to have.
Yeah, we need to read that.
Yeah.
And you might be able...
If it's not downloadable, you might be able to get a copy from Pete Oboiski in the museum,
because they're kind of dealing with Jerry's artifacts.
Yeah, sometimes these older papers are available to us, and sometimes they're not.
If you go to the Moth Photographer's...
It looks like it's available.
Okay.
Yeah, there's a scan of it online.
Often, there's a direct link to it on the Moth Photographer's Group.
You just click on it.
Oh, okay.
So, on many of the papers.
But this one, because it doesn't deal with a particular moth, it may not be.
