time to time. Spodoptera, see, Spodoptera was still the most common
to a metrida by yard this year, but it was down in numbers.
Do you think that it's native?
But again, that's...
Pyralis farinalis is a stored...
It's the grain moth, the egg grain moth, or something like that. Farina. Farina is what, some kind of boiled wheat product or something.
A porridge type thing.
It's a cereal anyway. So I think this feeds on cereals, and it has quite a range of sizes,
and I've never seen it in my house, and I guess people have found it infesting stored grains,
but maybe mostly sile, and silage or something, but it shows up in my yard at almost any time of the year, and
never in great numbers.
And I thought it'd been kind of consistently inconsistent, but you show that your model suggests that it's declining, which could be true.
You know, a lot of these stored products bests may exploit compost, too.
So if people are composting, that's a possibility, I'll say, augmenting their population.
Oh, that one, yeah.
Pyrasta californicalis feeds on various mints and flies both during the day and at night.
So this is a tiny moth with bright yellow-orange hindwings, and you'll often see it, say, around rosemary during the day.
Or if you have any blooming mint plant during the day, you'll see.
So I thought that maybe what we were saying is, if I turn the light on early, ones that were active during the day, when it gets dark, go to the light.
But it's clear that some of them are flying well after sunset.
So I think it's just one of these species that's both diurnally and nocturnally active.
Pyrasta lataclavia.
Powell told me that this is an introduced species.
So I don't know that I ever got it at Cold Cannon.
And it has two very different forms.
One is very attractive, yellow and red.
And the other one is kind of a muddy, chestnut color with some marked markings.
And I think they're seasonal, but I'm not certain.
And the one that's kind of muddy looking is very similar to a moth that is very common at Cold Cannon.
Pyrasta.
Moran Alice?
Moran Alice, yeah.
And I've recorded Moran Alice from my yard now, but I'm not 100% certain that my identifications of these are correct.
And these were treated in one of the first Moth of North America monographs, but the photographs and the descriptive material are not.
So do you think this is really showing up here?
Oh, this is lataclavia we're talking about now.
Oh, okay.
Got it.
But Volupialis is also an introduced species.
And the thinking is that these are being spread around on nursery stock.
And, you know, one of the places I like to buy plants from is, what do they call it, Morning Sun Herb Farm.
Do you know the place?
It's down on, what's the road?
The road that comes out at Solano Park, Pleasance Valley Road.
I don't know this place.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, okay.
So there's that park, you know, where people.
I went there to buy plants and, you know, she says, well, what are the moths eating our mints?
Because originally they were an herb farm, you know, they sold herbs.
They also grow ornamentals, mostly jolt-oled plants.
So I said, well, there's a number of them.
And I made her a little kit to show what they look like.
This one, once it showed up, I seem to be getting it fairly regularly.
So whether it came to my yard on some herb that I had brought in from an outdoor nursery room, I can't say.
But eventually it did show up at Cold Canyon.
And I think I have one or two records from Cold Canyon, but not enough for analysis, apparently.
There is a similar looking species at, a native species at Cold Canyon called Grotei, G-R-O-T-E-I.
He's probably on there.
I think the story went to some neighbor or friend of hers who said, why don't you call your daughter?
How else did Grotei is?
Maybe you don't have nothing.
And that eventually showed up in my yard.
Call my son.
Palupialis, and it's red with pale markings, just the same as Palupialis.
But the pattern is different.
That, you know, a casual look, you'll confuse one with the other.
So, are we at Spodoptera now?
Yes.
Spodoptera, Exigula, beet army worm, among another of hosts of common names.
And I didn't realize it, but it is an introduced species.
Well, at least you realized it.
Which may explain why it doesn't look like any of the other Spodoptera.
And it is by far the most common geometric in my yard, and is also very common at Cold Canyon.
But whether it's the most common one there or not, I'd have to check the numbers.
And there were some nights when I ran the light trap in the early years.
And there were so many Spodoptera, I said, I don't want to count them.
And sometimes when there's a lot of them at my light, I've made an estimate of how many are there.
A conservative estimate.
So, I record the number that I collect plus an estimate of the number that I didn't collect, which is usually around.
I didn't know you were collecting that.
I knew you were collecting the number that you collected, but not the estimated amount that you didn't collect.
But I only do that if I want to be more representative of how many actually showed up.
I mean, you have to make some decisions.
We can't do everything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I don't know whether I was making those estimates in the beginning or not.
But this shows a decline.
You would think if I wasn't doing that in the beginning, it would show an even greater decline.
Yeah.
It might show a false increase.
Spadoptera prefica, there's another species which looks almost exactly like it, called Orthogalli.
And there are reports of Orthogalli from around here, but I've been looking over these carefully.
And based on the character that I saw in the literature, I've never seen Orthogalli in my yard.
But there's a possibility that we do have Orthogalli and that it does show up.
This is an armyworm.
I think it's called yellow-striped armyworm or something like that.
And Greg's father owned a ranch in Knight's Landing, and he reported one year that these things were just all over the place.
So, this is something that is subject to outbreaks and then probably gets knocked down again, either by disease or parasitism.
And Wagner's been after me for the longest time to send him one for eggs.
So, that he can raise the larva.
And ever since I've looked for it, I've never gotten a female or never got a female that laid eggs.
Do you think it's native?
I think so.
He wants it desperately for his book.
For his book, so he can take pictures.
Yeah, his caterpillar book.
Well, if it's the softest...
I can't remember whether it was before I actually...
Stigmella, species number three.
Could be more than one species.
And then there's another one that may be just smaller individuals of species number three.
So, I've called all the ones that are kind of like me.
The one that's very distinct is Stigmella, species number two.
And this is irrelevant because what I called one, two, and three in Davis are not the same as one, two, and three.
Well, one, two, and three are not here.
Yeah.
Like, at all.
So, maybe they just are not abundant enough?
Probably not enough of them.
So, is that a more urban species?
Because we get those on Quercus lobata all the time.
It's a Deptocula and it's a Leafbinder.
Yeah.
And so, Leafbinders are very host-specific.
And it could be an urban species or it could be one that I just don't collect very often.
Because they're on the Quercus lobata, which is in Cold Canyon.
Well, I don't know what this one feeds up on.
Stigmella.
So, they might actually be, like, species-specific, like, host-specific by species and not genus?
Well, other leaf-mining species sometimes are specific at the oak species level.
And others are specialists on Quercus or in closely related.
So, if they feed an agrifolia, they'll also get on whyslazenia, you know, the hard leaf.
But I don't know if this feeds on oak or anything else in my yard.
I've not looked for mines on anything.
It just shows up for some reason.
And over the years, I've learned where it tends to land on my light sheet.
Whoa, like how close to the light?
So, it tends to be at the very top of the sheet and in the center where the light is.
So, I think they land on the sheet and then skitter up to the top of the sheet.
And a great number of the tiny moths do the same thing.
So, this is what I call a minute moth.
So, this is too small for most people to spread.
You know, it's like the size of a...
...aumatidia in an average-sized moth.
They're very, very small.
And many of them, I have to use the smallest size minutons available in order to pin them.
And then, if you try to spin them, spread them, it's just dumb luck.
You know, either they spread or they don't.
More often than not, they don't.
So, I just pin them up.
You know, I guess if...
Like I said, most of these leaf miners have been identified by being collected as larvae.
But there is a monograph on Stigmella that was done by some guy in...
If you could offer me that job, I wouldn't have taken it because it's just...
One of the Scandinavian countries.
Well, it just looked boring.
Wilkinson, his name was.
It's super boring.
It's available.
I mean, you know.
And then...
Not that some of the stuff that I have done is...
Don Davis at the Smithsonian prepared a Mona monograph on it, but it never got published.
And I think for the reason that they figure nobody gives a rat's ass about my new moth that they can't see or spread.
But you still get the...
I get rats ass.
They don't want to go to the expense of publishing a book that only libraries and...
Well, it's one of the reasons I've been kind of mad.
Crazy people like me.
...letting me label his Arizona bees that have code numbers.
But, you know, back when I was in graduate school, first in graduate school, so that was...
Well, he keeps saying that's a good idea, but it never happened.
So around almost 50, 45 years ago now, Don Davis showed me the pictures that he had.
You know, they all were hand-drawn.
They didn't use photography.
They're beautiful pictures.
He says, this is ready for publication.
45 years later, it still hasn't been published.
And I hear Don Davis is not in good health, so it probably will never publish.
He said that he told him that...
Samoka Signatella is in the same family that Otto's stickity with Egoconia that we discussed
early.
And this one, unlike Egoconia, shows up with some regularity at Cold Canyon, as well as in my yard.
And I don't know anything about Egoconia, nor do I know whether it's stated or not.
But that's a very small family.
And before it had been, it and Egoconia had been bounced around among a number of different
families, including, I think, Lester Basis.
Let me stop this and take a quick...
