Especially now when people are changing their landscaping and
they're developing the lots near me and Davis Pond now goes dry when it used to have water in it
the situation is changing considerably you know and I think it changes in different ways than
the natural environment. So onward and upward. Oh we're out of time. Anna Vitranil I talked about.
Anna Vitranil I talked about at Davis and at Davis I didn't get it for a lot of
years and then it showed up and now it's shows up fairly commonly. I previously got it at
the A is missing so or the generic name is missing here. It would be A-N-A if it were showing there.
And you can see it. So this is a real trend. Yeah so this is this is real it didn't show up for a
while but I caught it before that at Cold Canyon and the same thing happens it's been more common
in recent years. I don't know why that is. I don't know enough about the host plants and
they're two species which are similar and in Jerry the book the western moth books
Oppler wrote if you can't tell them apart you need to dissect them. Well I can dissect them
but I don't know which. I don't have illustrations so I don't. Do you know if one or both of these is
native or non-native or you don't know? I don't know but they're probably native. Okay probably native
but you don't know. And you know the other distinction I want to make and I'll say so at the
time is there's non-native but there's also invasive non-native and invasive is somewhat
important too. Well it's a it's a government classification so yeah. I mean this year one of
the pantry moths exploded in my yard. I had no more than five prior to this year and I started getting
them in 2020 and this year I got 43 of them minimum. So that's often the pattern with invasive species
they show up. Ancelus columbia and another species it's not not out. This feeds on Ceanothus it's native
and there's another species which is very similar. This has kind of falcate wing tips and the other one
has more rounded but there's some that's kind of intermediate and I believe the genitalia are so
similar that nobody's quite sure whether these are good species or not but it could be that this is
one of those situations you know like encetina and newts or salamanders and some other things where
they act like good species and part of their range but not in others so I don't know but
Ancelus is a very distinct looking moth. They're all recorded as columbiana but they might be the
other species the name of which doesn't pop into my head right now but I'll probably make that wake up
in the middle of the night and yell it out. Anancia
Anancia are small gray moths and Cosmopterygidae and they look very much like blastobases like the
common blastobases and if you don't look carefully you're going to confuse them with one another.
I believe all are native. Many of them feed on mints. I don't know what fasciata feeds on but this one
is somewhat common. Orites I've reared from mints so I know that one and I think there may be one
or two other species which show up less commonly but because they resemble blastobases if I didn't
look carefully at the specimens I may have erroneously recorded them as that wastebasket category for
blastobases. This year I got one that I've yet to dissect in my yard that may be an Anancia so
that would be interesting because this could be another mint association.
So their host plants are mint so I want to make sure we write down oh well you're getting the um
you're getting the AI version too right okay um I want to make sure that we record host plant and
native versus non-native. Do you think um fasciata also? I believe all Anancia are native. There's no
reason to believe there's not but okay and you think this one feeds on mint even though I don't know the
food plant of fasciata but there is a fascicle on Cosmopteridges and Hodges who wrote it probably
if he had a food plant association he would have written it. The problem with Hodges is
often on material from Berkeley Powell would record if he swept it off a plant he would record that
the adult was on a certain plant but if the adult was there it's not necessarily the
Harville food plant but Hodges uh interpreted that as meaning this is the food plant when
sometimes it wasn't. Okay. But you know the literature is full of errors like that.
Antep, Anteperoe semiotrata is a widespread moth probably it's a geometric
widespread widespread probably native um I think I got it once in my yard but it's
fairly common at Cold Canyon and reasonably easy to identify but some forms of some other geometries are
similar.
apanthesis ornata is a tiger moth uh so tiger moths used to be in their separate family now they're
considered a sub-family of uh
Aribidae, the one that split off from Noctuus on the basis
of wing venation but you know Wagner who rears larvae thinks that a lot of these decisions
if you look at the larvae are supported by larval morphology so tiger moths you know are the woolly
bears and things like that so lots of secondary seeding. Generalists, tiger moths
um many tiger moths seem to fly late at night so if I'm not staying up late at night I may miss them
and um when I was at Briggs Hall you know sometimes in the morning the stairwells there act like a big
flight trap and often you'd see salt marsh caterpillar or another tiger moth in big numbers
um in the stairwell in the morning when you go to work but um you know I I seldom get them in my yard
um tiger moths are subject to heavy parasitization my eye drops make my nose run and uh as well as the cold and
you often see collapses in population so I think Rick Carman one time collected
this big tiger moth that's out at Point Reyes and Bodega Marine Lab brought him back to the
lab to rear and almost all of them were parasitized and I think I did the same thing when I was a kid
uh from ones I got at Point Reyes Apro, Rima, Nigrella and Species One Jerry in the past told me that these were
forms of the same species but I think that's erroneous because I only get the black ones in Davis
Nigrella has black with two one or two bands across the forewing or stripes I should say they're narrow stripes
and they're white or cream colored feeds on um what used to be lotus scoperius but it's been moved out of
lotus I think you know which is the bushy lotus or what used to be lotus deer weed aporama nigrella
and possibly the other one
all right good no um I need water I'll be right back
they're coming
I can't find your hospital is a davis moth as well
fruit tree leaf roller I believe and as I mentioned likely native um almost certainly native I would
even though it's a pest species
and it seems to be most common where there are so what's interesting at
cold canyon is that immediately after fire you don't see it as commonly as
normal years and that could be this depression here on your chart
and another torturous which feeds on low-growing plants
goes from being uncommon to being very common and then they gradually shift in
so I'll talk about that when we get but I talked about our
Kipsaga ross flow before and even though it's somewhat polyphagous
it is most abundant in the vicinity of oaks
Aristotelia argantiferous feeds on coyote bush and specific to it easy to identify unlike most of the
Aristotelia so these are good records and coyote bush gets increasingly
abundant you know it's not an early successor to fire but it
seems to succeed fire much earlier than a lot of other plants do
and all these Aristotelia two for two is probably at least two species the Aristotelian numbers at
Cold Canyon are the same numbers I use for
Davis so two and Davis is the same as two in cold canyon and so forth
two is almost certainly two species
the rest of them not so sure and as I mentioned one of them
is probably not an Aristotelia and that was one of the ones at Davis
when you can take a break so that we can start a new recording so the file doesn't get too big
I'm okay
