I always like separates, preferable to electronic, you know, because I never can find anything that I store as an electronic file.
Yeah, yeah, it's a, that amount of information, that organization of it is something that most of us struggle with.
I databased all of them before, but now when you buy the suite of office programs, they no longer provide the database.
So I'm in the process of trying to convert what databases I still have to Lotus, one, two, three, Excel files.
God, I'm stuck in the past.
Technology moves faster than I do.
Me too.
You too.
It won't be long before we're all Luddites.
Buckeletric Albertiola I discussed at Davis.
It's probably Albertiata, but there's many other species that look almost identical to it.
Anyway, I did get a few in the text. I'll bring them in.
Just, I just made up some way.
Powell said that there is another species on oak that's similar to Alberti yellow.
But I think I have that one as buccolatrix number such and such in my backyard.
The ones that I call buccolatrix number one or two or three in my yard are different than the one, two, and three at Cold Canyon.
So it's interesting to me that we have both buccolatrix ceanothiella and separabilis here because what I was calling separabilis is ceanothiella.
It was misidentification, and I gave you a correction.
But when I look here and here, these are the same.
So that's why.
That's why.
It's just a duplicate.
To replace separabilis with ceanothiella in your, for both, I think there's one Davis record.
They're both kind of a white, tiny white moth with black markings, but they're very different from one another once you see the pictures.
But I didn't have the pictures until recently, and I knew separabilis, which is on coyote bush, from the coast, and I assume that's what we had.
But, you know, ceanothus is everywhere, so.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, it's ornamental.
So that's a discrepancy there.
We'll fix it.
And the rest of these buccolatrix are ones that I just assigned a number to.
The one that I call buccolatrix tawny or something turned out to be a tishereid, and I think they've all been changed, but I can't say that with certainty.
Bucolatrix have what they call eye caps, and that's expanded scales at the base of antennae over the eyes.
Yeah, I love those so much.
They look like little puppies.
And tishereids do not, and that's why I was always suspicious about that so-called tawny albertio.
Where are we?
So, her favorite word.
Bucolatrix, you name it, yeah.
Puppy.
She just wakes up all morning, she says, puppy, puppy, puppy.
Yesterday, she called a bird a puppy.
My daughter's learning new words.
That's so cute.
The chaleptilia species slash species bee is probably more than one species.
And these are all kind of, chaleptilia in general is an enormous genus found in many, maybe in every hemisphere of the world.
And they're leaf miners that later make, most of which later make like a cone-shaped shelter on the same food plant in which they finish feeding, make their cocoon and pupa, and then emerge.
And they stand on, with their forelegs stiffened and their tails sitting back.
So, they're very easy to recognize on the sheet, even though they're tiny, longs.
Species bee are all the ones that are kind of a, yeah, that's the posture.
They look like tiger beetles.
The way they sit.
No, I don't know.
It may be that most of these things that have kind of a peculiar posture or eye spots and everything are thought to be mimicking spiders.
Interesting.
Yeah, yeah.
I see that.
I mean, the legs look a lot like spiders.
Other times, it's because they want to look twig-like.
So, I don't know.
The ones that I call bee are like this.
They're kind of brown here.
And then these little tick marks along the leading edge of the wing.
That's a funny-looking moth.
This is what, Wagner particularly liked these when he was in magic school.
I think it's like a little tripod.
I like it, too.
Yeah.
So, I recorded a number of the ones that look like that as this.
And a couple of species were distinct and recorded by name or as some other thing.
Like, there was a black one that we reared from ash only once.
And there's a name for one called, there's a name for a calyptelia on ash called Fraxinella, of course.
And that does not seem to be the species we have out here.
But it's an enormous genus with many undescribed species and many that are difficult to tell apart.
And very little available to the amateur to just differentiate them.
Do you think they're native?
Pardon me?
Do you think they're native?
Probably, because they're leafminers.
Okay.
And most leafminers are highly specialized.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Sometimes even to the species within a larger genus.
Mm-hmm.
Choradrina postacella.
This is a recent change in the genus.
I don't know.
It's a noctuit and I don't know much about the biology.
I don't think this is one that's covered in any of the fascicles on noctuits.
But it could be.
If it is, it's probably under the old generic name.
Oh, nice.
I just fell back.
I just fell back.
I don't know.
Yeah.
We do have a shift in the...
Catacula ilia zoe.
Oh, okay.
Catacula ilia has...
Catacula are the underwing walls, you know, with the bright colors.
So it's thought to be aposematic.
You know, they flash this and cut it together.
Catacula ilia has red hindwings with the black loops in it.
But zoe, the western one, has yellow-orange hindwings.
And that makes it very similar to another species that is reported from this area.
And all the ones...
I didn't realize that there were these two very similar species and I didn't make any comparisons.
So it's possible that not all of these are this one species.
And the other species, I'd have to look at them to see what the name of it is.
But like Shapiro and a number of other people have reported seeing this to me from time to...
The other species from time to time.
And I've always wondered whether they think that ilia always has red hindwings and it's a misidentification.
But the other one seems to be out here.
Directly.
Catacula is very popular.
See how it has a red hindwing there?
Yeah, it's a handsome wall.
But that's not the case out here.
Okay.
But the pattern of the forewings is different than the pattern of the other one.
It's different, but not startlingly different.
Houseplant? Native? Non-native?
I think most Catacula are native.
And I think all of them feed on trees and shrubs.
And I don't know how host-specific they are.
Popular with collectors.
Yes.
Variliana is the more common species of Catacula with a red hindwing.
It's a smaller one.
I'm surprised some of the other species didn't show up in sufficient abundance to make the list.
Often, you know, they're very strong flyers.
And often what happens is they come in, hit the sheet, they fly off, never to return.
And I think that could be the case with a lot of fast-flying moths.
And, you know, it doesn't make me upset because often they come back later, but not always.
Cyanotes brownella.
Cyanotes is a chelikea.
Another one with the wings flat across the back of the body.
And it's known to be on lupins.
And I don't know what other food plants.
I never reared it myself, but it's one of the more common ones at Cold Canyon.
But I've never seen it at Davis.
Yep, yep, I see it.
Cyanotes johnstidae.
There was another species that looks very much like this called Cyanotes restio.
And it kind of disappeared.
And this, which is similar, showed up about the same time.
Well, this one looks like it disappeared here.
Could be, yeah.
But it could be also that this restio and Cyanotes powoli are all similar.
Males of Cyanotes powoli have some secondary sex characteristic on the wings that makes them easy to identify.
But the females of all the species.
But restio completely disappeared.
And I know it was true restio because the guy who did the Mona revision, monograph on Cyanotes, designated one of my Cold Canyon specimens as a paratype.
So, and I think they all feed on oaks.
All of those three species.
I mentioned Cyanotes, but there's a lot of Cyanotes.
So, do you think that this dropping off could just be misidentification?
I think it's possible that once I recognized powoli as a common species, and didn't dissect as many of them,
I started calling more of them Johnstoni, or powoli, unless they were males.
So, females is kind of a crapshoot as to whether I identified them correctly.
But male, powoli.
So, we should probably collapse powoli and johnstoni and call them either or?
Are there any of the other Cyanotes that we should include in that lumped category?
Well, I don't know whether your intention is to lump them for the purposes of analysis.
Yeah, so it would be like, if we can't...
But I kind of think that's a bad idea.
Because the phenology may be very different.
But in this case, since they all feed on oaks, that could be real.
But it could be that there's a phenomenon going on where one outcompetes the others on oaks during some years.
Okay.
See, and there's the danger if you lump them together.
Yeah, okay.
But that's an opinion, and, you know, ultimately the decisions are yours.
Okay, so do you think that any of these other Cyanotes could be, like, you...
Confused with it?
Yeah.
There are other species which I haven't listed, but have...
There's one called Petalumansus.
There's one Occidentalis.
There's some other ones that are very similar to it.
Okay.
If you want, you can look at the pictures on MPG and just say California.
And look to see which species are identical to one another and which ones are in our area.
And then, if you want, you can download the monograph and see which ones are oak feeders.
But it doesn't really matter because when you collect them on the sheet, if they look like other species,
their whole plant is irrelevant, if you might confuse them with one another.
But Restia looks more like Johnstidae than either of them look like Palolai.
But Jerry wrote in his book that Palolai is the most common species on oaks.
But I think that was based upon the sites that he collected.
Oh, Bellis is a...
Well, let's skip it for a minute because here's Palolai.
And you can see Palolai went from nothing to frequent.
And that could be...
You did that in Davis, too.
Yeah.
But I didn't get the similar species in Davis before I started getting Palolai.
And Palolai is there very common.
You know, there's that species I'm calling Galachia number two in Davis.
And I have lots and lots of records.
And now I'm beginning to lean towards that that's a Kayanodes.
But I could be wrong.
And, you know, what I need to do if it is Kayanodes is check to see whether it's one of these species that vanished
because I forgot how to recognize it.
So here's Palolai and going back to a Bellis.
I think a Bellis is a Ceanothus feeder.
It's a small one, drab, brown.
Very few distinguishing features.
So I dissected a number of them.
And there's another species which only differs in small details of the genitalia.
But I could see them clear enough to know that the small ones here that I dissected were all this one species.
So here's Rustio.
I'm surprised that there's that many late records.
Okay, I'm going to stop us.
I'm going to stop us.
