Good going for a little bit, and I'll record number three, and I will go check Ani Lozeth.
Okay.
Eupathisa is a big genus, and in general, it's hard to tell apart.
But those that I mentioned and the Navidata group, I have so little confidence.
I think most of them are Navidata.
And I think it's highly possible that Navidata is variable in these genitalia as well as
patterns, so it's possible that these characters are not valid, that have been used to separate
them.
And none of these people who did the monographs did DNA studies, which is unfortunate.
That would have provided additional evidence as to the validity of the species.
Gillata is easy to recognize.
That's a winner.
After lunch, Navidata is mostly a winter moth, but it flies, has a longer flight season.
McDonough, I probably confused some of them with the most common species, which is Nistarata.
But now I know how to tell them apart and don't make mistakes anymore.
McDonough, I've got in Davis.
I just got Navidata for the first time in Davis this year.
Mistosa, there's a similar species.
And Bill Patterson at Quail Ridge was calling it by the similar species name.
But I did the dissections.
And it turned out that Volte's paper with illustrations of the labial palps show a difference, which
confirmed that my ID was correct.
I sent specimens to Ferris when he was doing his study, and he'd never, he just said, they
looked to me like Melissa, where I wasn't sure whether they were that.
But the genitalia of it and another species are very similar to one another.
And I was never completely comfortable calling it one or the other.
And I'm not sure that Ferris correctly resolved the identity crisis either.
He's used to be in a different genus.
Prorella, I believe.
And they fly in the spring or early summer.
I can't remember which.
And I think all the ones I collected, I collected on the canyon floor.
So that may account for records in some years and not in other years.
Eupathisia mendicata.
That's the tiny one.
And Ferris did not agree in the identification here.
But the genitalia suggests that it's mendicata.
But there are other small species that are very similar.
And I didn't dissect every individual.
It's a common one.
So I believe it's mostly mendicata because everyone that I dissected was mendicata.
And, um, but, um, for instance, Mariah Robinson called her something else when she collected them at McLaughlin.
But she didn't do any, any dissection she did, I did for her.
I don't know that I dissected any of her specimens.
I think she was calling it Minuta.
And, uh, Ferris said they're not small enough to be this.
These used to be in a different genus, Nassus sinus, but not anymore.
Eupathisia mysterata is the most common species.
And you get it throughout the year.
And in my yard, I collected some on lupine.
But I know that they've also been reared from, uh, plants in completely different families.
So I think it's somewhat of a generalist, which is why it's so successful.
So, segregata is, um, you know, Ferris wrote that this is a hard moth to ID.
But to me, it's an easy moth to ID because it has tufts on the abdomen, tufts of scales on the abdomen.
And even when the wings get worn, there's kind of a characteristic pattern that's recognizable.
And, uh, fairly common.
I get it.
Rarely in Davis.
Sub-epicata is very easy to recognize.
But there is an almost identical species in Southern California.
Um, but the genitalia of the two species are completely different from one another.
So if, um, is that all about that genus?
Because if so, let's cut off here.
Maybe one, is there?
There's one more.
Okay.
Zalmira.
Zalmira.
I've got once in Davis.
Um, this again is one that looks a little bit like some of the species of so-called species
Nevidata.
Um, but to me, this one is more distinct.
So, I believe they've all been correctly identified.
I dissected enough of them to know that those that I dissected and called Zalmira are that species
and not a similar-looking one.
So, are we going to quit at this point?
Yeah.
Uh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
