Okay, you can express now.
The decline at Cold Canyon could be attributable to the fact that I collected mainly in the valley floor in the early years and then moved up into the higher trail on the west wall of the canyon and further away from the willows.
But we have that in the model too.
Yeah.
And so if that was the case, if that was driving it, we wouldn't see the decline.
Well, perhaps. I don't know.
Well, if you trust our model.
Yeah.
Well, you know, everything in science is if the model is right, then this is the conclusion.
But people seldom examine the if portion of them.
Yeah. Models are always wrong.
They present it and then move on.
Well, we're going to try to convince you to trust our model.
Well, I'll leave it to people who read the paper.
Okay.
It's agreeable to not because I'm not an expert on the model and other people are.
Galgula apartheid is a widespread moth and it flies during the day as well as in the evening.
I don't know that I ever got it at Cold Canyon.
No.
I don't see it.
And it has a long flight period.
And during the day, I see females more often than I see males.
And it's one of those that has a fancy caterpillar.
So every once in a while, somebody will send a picture of the caterpillar into the museum for identification.
And as you can see, it's kind of all over the place for records in my backyard.
And I guess you couldn't identify any trends there.
I think, you know, Wagner wrote a caterpillar book.
And in it, he has information on hosts.
And he's currently writing one on Western species.
So there'll be more information on Noctuas down the line.
But Galeria melanela is the greater wax moth.
So this is the one that comes out of beehives, honeybee hives.
Oh, my God.
Can you tell me more about that?
And it's probably non-native and was introduced along with apiculture in this country.
But where it's native to, you know, it's kind of cosmopolitan now because apiculture is all over the world.
Do you know why it might show an increase in Davis and a decline in Cold Canyon?
Well, it could be due to the fact that, you know, we've had honeybee decline throughout the country.
And one time I took a hike and I encountered a honeybee hive, a ground-nesting honeybee hive during the hike.
So I know there's some wild colonies of honeybees at Cold Canyon.
And being a ground-nesting one, that's one, and it was in an area that has burned more frequently than just the major fires.
So it and maybe some of the other colonies or hives have been destroyed by fire or by ants and other pests that get into beehives.
You know, a lot of the things that I collected, you know, non-moths that I collected because they were kind of cool things in the early years at Cold Canyon,
like velvet ants disappeared over the years.
There used to be a real fancy red one, and I haven't seen it for many, many years.
So things change.
I didn't even know we had velvet ants.
I did because there's this kid in my ant one class who I assigned him a spider,
and he made a very long argument for why I should have assigned him a velvet ant,
and I let him keep the velvet ant because he was so annoying and right.
But, you know, just when you think something disappears, you get another one.
That's what Art says, too.
He says the same thing.
Helico-verpizia is the corn earworm.
Where is that one on here?
Helico-verpizia.
I don't have it.
You may have some before.
Yeah, it may not.
I may have no records for Cold Canyon.
I think I got more this year than I haven't ever before, but, you know,
it may depend on how closely they're growing corn and whether they're growing BT corn.
Yeah.
But it's not specific to corn.
I think it feeds on other plants as well.
Heliosus phloxophaga.
This is an interesting moth because after one of the fires, I think the first, the fire of 96,
there was a lot of prickly lettuce grew up in Cold Canyon.
And when I set up the light at dusk, there were lots and lots of these coming to the flowers for nectar.
But I got none at blacklight.
So I think this is a species that's not highly drawn to blacklight or to light.
So, you know, that's why I've kind of emphasized that collecting by light gives you different results
than collecting using other strategies.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Hemi-Ezoa-Ruden's.
Oh, is this for a bunch of times?
Yeah.
Nice.
That's perfect.
Oh, that's great.
It's kind of interesting.
I thought I had it in pretty good numbers all along, but it shows that it's been increasing in Davis.
I don't know that this was a very good year for it, but I'd have to check.
And I'd have to look up the host plant, but I found it out by checking on the Internet so you could do the same.
Do you think it's native?
Well, it's widespread, only in the west, so I suspect it's a native species and west of the Great Basin primarily.
What about this one?
Flexifega is widespread.
It has a common name, like, I can't remember.
It's so hard to tell.
I can't remember scientific and common names most, but.
Yeah.
Bug Guide says it eats snakeweed.
Yeah, and, you know, ESA has that common names manual, you know, the ESA-approved common names.
And it seems like nobody goes back to these approved names.
It's just like they've abandoned the ICZN for nomenclature rules, and it's crazy.
The Internet has made everybody stupid.
Quote me.
I will quote it.
Henricus umbra basanus is specific to oaks.
And it's in a small subfamily of tartricids that are allegedly being revised, but this is one species whose name will probably not be changed.
And because I have no oaks in my yard, it shows up intermittently, whereas Greg, who does have oaks in his neighborhood, more oaks in his neighborhood, reports it more frequently than I.
So, you know, the oaks were recently devastated at Cold Canyon, so it may be a victim of fires at Cold Canyon.
Yeah, it looks like it's holding on.
Yeah, but I didn't go there after the most recent fire, which wiped out the remaining oaks, many of the remaining oaks.
Yeah, it did.
I hope that by posting the Cold Canyon data, people in the future, especially since the UC Reserve, will compare then with during my tenure there.
People.
Yeah.
You said you hope people.
Well, I'm not looking at, in a year or two, I'm looking at, you know, somebody.
Well, hopefully we'll live for a while.
One of the first projects that I worked on was Jerry, there was a Life magazine, which you may have never heard of, I don't know, some years ago,
that looked at the dunes in Antioch, where there was an endangered butterfly and some endangered, there was some endangered species because it was kind of a unique habitat.
And it was a place where a lot of collectors, especially from Berkeley, and Davis was part of Berkeley.
Is this one that you sent me, uh, the blue butterfly on the coast?
Yeah, is it a blue?
This is a metal mark.
Oh, never heard of a metal mark.
Oh, okay.
Um, but they all went there.
It had legless lizards, um, you know, which my brother was interested in snakes and lizards, so we went there and clicked.
Well, the dunes are mined, and the butterfly seems to be extinct.
Um, what was I talking about?
Which species?
Uh, no.
This one.
Well, you were talking about this one.
I was talking about it.
Yeah.
They're in here.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Oh, the first project that I worked on, Jerry went to all the museums and got old records for a number of families,
many of which were Lepidopter, but also things like robber flies and bees, I think.
And, you know, that was my first trip to Davis Museum, was gathering records from the museum, such as it was back then.
Um, and he was then going to the dune years after this Life magazine to see what was still there and what had disappeared.
So, that's my thinking.
Maybe in future years, people will go to Cold Canyon, or even just collect in Davis, and wonder, you know, what's new and what's disappeared.
You know, Art, in his emails, pointed out that there was a big Saturnian moth that used to be along Puta Creek, and it disappeared during our lifetimes.
You know, it hasn't been seen in years, so whether it's completely gone or not remains to be seen.
And that particular species was also at Antioch Dunes and disappeared from there.
What's the name of it?
Um, Hamiluca, or Aglantarita, E-G-L-A-N-T-E-R-I-N-A.
Oh, wow.
That one.
Oh.
It's a day flying moth.
Isn't that one up in the mountains still?
Yes.
It's widespread.
It has a cute little caterpillar, too, that tends to go along trails.
Yeah, you see it wandering off.
And it's difficult to rear because if it gets the least bit disturbed after it pupates, it doesn't seem to survive.
And then they get highly parasitized because they wander off to pupate.
The last instar seems to be a generalist, whereas the early instars feed, don't move off whatever the eggs were laid on.
I've never heard of that before.
I mean, that makes sense if you're going to disperse.
Yeah.
So I found it at San Bruno Mountain, which is the first place that I surveyed.
I have to leave in four minutes, so I think...
And then...
...
