Yeah, anyway, I trust you to make all the decisions as far as the modeling and so forth.
Awesome. Yeah, it's great to hear that.
I'll give you some feedback, but, you know, it's not really criticism.
It's just something to consider.
In general, I want to give you feedback if it's something that pops out like that.
Yeah.
Correct me on these other situations with the name and quotation marks,
it means that they used to have this terminology,
and certainly, in Latin, which means uncertain placement.
These are ones where this is where they currently reside,
and those are probably wrong.
But the correct assignment is up for grads, or there's no correct assignment.
Yeah, I think we're reading this one.
This one, Crepe on Nana, for the longest time, I couldn't put a name on it.
And Tim McCabe, who's with New York State Department of Agriculture, had a girlfriend who used to work in the lab that I did before.
But he'd come out here from time to time, and he collected at Cold Canyon once when he was out there.
And he sent me a list of the species that he caught.
And a lot of them, he used names that I wasn't using.
And one of them was Crepe in Nana.
And Ron Robertson, who was my natural specialist before him, thought it was a new species.
He was able to identify it on the basis of genitalia as a Crepe.
But it was not a species that he knew, so he thought it was a new species.
And what is called Crepe in Nana, in our collection, in our collection, doesn't look very much like the specimens that I get called candy.
And this is a fairly common lot, even though there's a lot of zero in this here.
But it does look like pictures of what's called Danna on a line.
It does resemble pictures of Nana on a line.
And because Tim McCain, who doesn't communicate very much, gave me that name.
And that's what I decided to call him.
So I'm pretty comfortable with that name now.
I know nothing about the line.
Crepe in Oklahoma.
Crepe in Oklahoma.
I think it's one that they didn't have pictures on a lot of photographers.
This is kind of a hard mock to identify.
And I think the name is correct.
This is what Ron Robertson thought it was, so I attributed it to him.
You know, for any species that you choose to discuss individually, I, in general, recorded who gave me the identification.
And that's on a label in the unitary in the synoptic collection.
So we can shift the blame for being somebody else who can think for that.
Sounds good.
какие25
Yeah.
Exitelia, this was recently addressed.
Have you decided it doesn't fit the current definition of Exitelia.
You know, historically there were various groups among that were divided, and further divided, and further divided.
There's nobody worse than taxonomists for pigeonholing things, except maybe ecologists.
Ecologists need to find terms all the time.
These are general terms.
And they say, well, I don't equate this.
I think the new term is .
And the same thing happens.
So, you know, with butterflies, it's gotten ridiculous.
So that now there's almost as many general species.
The problem is you start obscuring the relationships.
I don't know which general are related to the others.
I think we need to bring back.
You know, there's not enough caterpillars.
That's part of the problem.
Well, they get out of the .
The grandosal is a very conspicuous moth.
So if I collected it as correct .
Oh, okay.
Yes.
Very conspicuous.
Right.
You know what would be helpful?
And you've shown the document is using one or another checklist number.
Because then you could just end in the checklist number and reference it back through the species.
Because the names will change with the checklist number and something like it will change.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'll just say recommendation in the future if there's something like this.
This is a very, I think it's, the pattern is very distinct.
Even though it's a small moth.
I can't use it.
There may be a similar species, but I don't think it's a .
I'm not correct with this one.
I don't.
Olivia de Vesta.
Originally I had it under some other genus, the name of which escapes me at the moment.
And it's kind of a, I hate this here, cherries to use it all the time.
Nondescript.
If you describe something that's nondescript, that's kind of an oxymoron.
But this is a nondescript.
It's not one that pops out.
So it's one that's hard to sight ID identified by faces of the image.
Because there's nothing obviously distinctive about it.
So until you've collected them over and over and over again, you don't recognize it.
But all of these nondescript forms are ones that have a greater probability of being
numerologically recorded.
And I think that's an important point to me.
Orthodes, quote, no, Burka.
I think it was in Polian report on the genus.
And I don't have the concept of what that is on my head.
And I'm surprised at the call point that I collected it often enough to be on here.
If I don't know what it is.
And it's one that I don't recollect collecting very much.
I think what I should do is print out five copies of at least the five-month-old life.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's kind of.
But that's what I was calling nondescript.
You know, if I was saying, well, what do you look for to identify that?
And I would have to say, properly identify .
I mean, that's the value of the synaptic collection.
Because you don't have to look through everything.
Bill Patterson, you know, right?
Before we had my photographic group, we'd come in here.
He'd go through drill after drill after drill after drill after drill.
And then over and over again.
That's a lot of work.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So that would make it hard for him to give up his collection.
But he's not doing too well.
So he has an enormous butterfly collection.
And that was the last part of his collection that easily changed.
We used to find that before figuring out.
Arizona.
Recently, I just redefined Arizona.
But it's always been in Arizona, but not .
And this is a somewhat distinctive chain lecture.
I don't know too much about, I don't know very much about the life history.
But in general, I turned it not to look up the life histories of macros.
It was one of the other students of macros.
Okay.
Avigrotus.
Avigrotus.
We have one, two, three that you included.
But there's some other species that you didn't include.
Avigrotus.
No, you included just two of them.
I thought I had a box full of Avigrotus unidentified.
And I couldn't find it.
Well, I was rummaging around and I found it.
And it turned out that there's only four remaining that I couldn't identify.
Okay.
After I had done some dissection.
So there's four that I would likely dissect.
But that probably won't change things very much for you.
And I thought that there were some other species that were common enough to be included using the criteria that I'm not sure.
Malauri is very similar to a larger species with a more southerly distribution according to the monograph that includes the genus.
However, a lot of Southern California laws do extend a lot farther to the north than anybody thought in the valley and in the foothills.
But there hasn't been a lot of collectors who have stuff.
And collectors go to places that are cool.
The flashy places.
Yeah.
So I did have a couple of larger specimens of what looks like balauri.
And the genitalia of balauri.
And the southern species, the name of which escapes me right now.
And I retain here that it's deceptive and looks like balauri.
It could be that balauri is a mixture of the species.
And it could be that there's a species.
La Fontaine, who could the fascicle on the non-cturus, at least this group of non-cturus, the non-cturus, is a splitter.
So if they can find a reason to call one species, too, it's going to be two.
Chagonia is a smaller species of amigrotus.
And I think the females are dark brown and the males are light brown or the other way around.
I can't remember.
But it's unusual in that in most of the nocturus, in this genus of related genera,
the tip of the female abdomen is kind of flattened.
And the male abdomen is rounded all the way to the apex.
Well, this one, the female, is also rounded to the apex.
So you have to look a little closer to tell whether it's a male or female.
And there's another small species called canyon, which, if you looked at the distribution map,
and the monofascicles shouldn't be there.
But I just have to remember what it looks like, but it shouldn't be.
Well, the distribution map's there.
We're only at the specimens of the museum.
And after I, eventually I got both sepsis of it and it's a good match.
But amigrotus is a difficult change because a lot of the, there's a few distinct species,
but there's a lot of them that are similar to one or several other species.
So there are pairs or groups of species that are very similar to one another.
And when you're deceptive and you know what's in your memory and intention,
you're supposed to be in the one another again.
But every once in a while there's a possibility that something's real about it.
Unless you're alert for it, you listen.
And Surin and Arnalis is a very distinctive species.
I love to, flies, late winter, early spring.
So every specimen that I collected has been recorded.
The Chira Occidentalis, you know, we discussed the Chira before.
Ran Talvis is the one that's more widely distributed.
I think it's the one that's more widely distributed.
I think Occidentalis has a common name, but it may be the other one, I'm not sure.
I've not caught the ones that are called Ran Talis at Cope Canyon, or very seldom have caught them there,
whereas Ran Talis seems to be the dominant species in Davis.
And I've done a few dissections, but not a lot.
I don't know, I'd have to look to see whether I recorded NES or E or O.
But I don't think it would be proper if you're going to analyze them to combine the two together and insert the new model,
because I think they have very different types of books, ranges, and biologians, and so forth.
And that's the Dender, where they're combined spaces,
and through obscuring the patterns of each component of the combination.
Clarice Foley and the Tarchessa that feeds on the Mountain Mahogany.
And this is always a scientific name, because...
I have to do like a Heimlich maneuver to my brain to spurn out.
Arcane.
It's the Mountain Mahogany, you know, Shepard Hill.
So it kind of comes, it goes, this is what it'll probably be.
You know, it might be better after fire, because...
There's not a lot of circle carcass like cocaine, and most of it is on the west faces, sort of,
and not on the bottom floor, or on the east.
So not in the places where I put them off that surround.
And the...
I can look at it a lot of them.
The Acrobasis Collisionella is quite difficult to tell apart by faces from Acrobasis...
Oh.
...concilla.
Concilla.
Got it.
Okay.
They'll stay on oaks.
Males are easy to tell apart because they have an antenna character.
Right.
Let's say they're present or absent.
But it's always absent on the females, so they're a little bit harder apart.
But once you separate them, you know, and you have a series of them, you can map them.
You're no longer new to.
But I mention that because there's quite a high probability that I have misidentified collisionella,
or confused collisionella with Comptella.
So the numbers of both could be wrong.
Mm-hmm.
But they're both suspicious.
They behave fairly near once.
If you want to turn sorry about Bill Patterson's before the...
...if you do, you do, you do, you do.
He said, oh, you know, now they look different.
They're separate.
You know.
He looked at them.
He's really good.
I couldn't tell.
The stuff couldn't tell the difference.
But I can see it.
You know.
Yes.
But it's hard sometimes to put into words.
What it is.
The things that we can see initially.
Yeah.
Like I could solve it on them.
Pecker makes a struggle now on the other hand.
Who knows?
Very different from the other two.
And as I mentioned, at Colcannon, it seems to be on Toyah more than anything.
And if I recall correctly, and it's always a danger, it plasters together a couple of leaves
and it's found in kind of a silken shelter.
So it doesn't roll the leaves anymore.
It just kind of plasters two together.
So it sees their numbers on to other leaves.
And they're, you get it throughout the year.
So there's probably more than that.
The other generation.
Of course, the ones on oak.
So they're just a central generation.
Probably because of the tannins of oak.
Makes it unpalatable.
Much of the year.
This acrolophic green genus movie.
Acrolophidae has been treated as a family from time to time, but also as a son family.
And that's how it's treated in New Checkers.
So it's an acrolofine in a way.
And I sent this to a specialist who is, they wanted to have a monophacical, but it probably won't be published.
Because all the models are kind of mousy-bound looking and look very much like one another.
And the exception between this and the other species, which are currently in the genus imagery, and there's two at Cold Canyon, is obvious.
This one, you look at the palpi, and the palpi are very different than the two that are in the genus imagery.
But the specialists who are doing the monochemists have decided that the two that are currently in the genus are in two different genera.
But I don't know that those two genera are differentiated on the basis of external characters or not.
With that said, all of the new genus, new species, are probably recorded and recorded as new genus, new species.
Whereas all of the amygia-like ones are recorded as one or the other.
And the ones that were recorded as one or the other were the ones that the specialists examined.
And all the others, I'm not going to disser.
He had a way of just teasing on them.
He could see things externally that would tell him whether they were one or the other.
After he teased on some of the hairline scales on the tip of the abdomen of both men and men,
and he tried to describe it to me that, you know, without saying it under high magnification,
he didn't have the ability to do it.
I couldn't have sold that.
And so I've just been recorded in this year or...
But he told me that there's probably another species here that was not among the dozens of specialists that I have done with them.
He's one of those rare cases where you send something else to a specialist
and the turnaround time is weeks rather than years.
Oh, wow.
He came back and everyone has a lot of family.
Probably because he's an amateur or other professional.
Acrolophus, careful.
Acrolophus is another acrolophus.
Acrolophus, fine.
And the tropics, these are...
A lot of the species have labial palates that come up and curve back well beyond the back of the head.
Wow.
But the ones we have out here are shorter though.
They don't have those enormous recurred labial palates.
Tear file items are larger species than it is the other one, Latta Capitania.
And I got it for the first time in my backyard this year.
No records before.
I've never caught Latta Capitania in my backyard.
And Latta Capitania is the very colony that called Penny.
Do you remember that night that we went out and I forgot to remind you and Emily that we were going to go collect?
That night was so windy.
We only got it out for a moment.
Yeah, in my life.
No.
But I think almost all the moss that we collected that night were acrolophus by the Capitania.
And these species, I don't know too much about the biology, but the acrolophus that are in the nutria, I think, are associated with rotent burrows.
That sort of situation.
And these may get an animal habitat as well.
You know, they're related to canelias and a lot of the canelias are female characters and hairs and horny materials and so forth.
So, you know, a good classification is allowing you to make certain predictions about the biology.
I don't know.
You know, I don't know.
It's easy, but it breaks down in some degrees.
It's a specimen maybe.
You can't do it.
Yeah.
And the fichita was my two or two.
Acronecta.
I don't know which one.
I originally recorded Acronecta infleda.
to it. It has two species, Impita and Impressa. So in some of the old spreadsheets, you see
both names. And there recently was a Mona, a classical donor. But Jeff, somebody had
borrowed all the material before and that person never worked on it. And eventually
the person who wrote the classical corral of all of those numbers. And there was nothing
to compare specimens with, because everybody had known their specimens to this person.
So that was like plotting them.
I'll get her, I'll get her, I'll get her, I'll get her, I'll get her, I'll get her.
So based on some photographs that I have, I thought they were just
variations of white species. And it turns out that Impita is much larger than Impressa
on that basis alone. But we had accumulated material here in the
that were not seen by the person who did the monograph. And Jeff sent him photographs
and he was able to identify strictly on the basis of photographs. And now that we have
a good reference, I think everything is correct. And I made errors. And I think most of these are
somewhat generous on trees and shrubs.
You know, that's why he's not raised. He's full of information. He gets a little cranky about
sharing it with other people from time to time. If he knows that you're going to use it
rather than you're just curious.
I talked to him just recently. He's making noise about retiring once it gets.
Oh, interesting.
Acronecta marmorata is the most common one. And we get it here in Davis. The other two species I've not seen in Davis.
In Marmorata, I think it's fairly widespread. And I think it probably in Davis is an oak moth. And it may be an oak moth in general.
Acronecta prodita is a very dark species with a white hindrance. So it's fairly easy to recognize.
And it's fairly easy to recognize.
The delphagrotus indeterminata we discussed in Davis. But again, early specimens might have been confused with what I was
calling .
Until that fascicle came out.
There's another species of the delphagrotus indeterminata in Southern California that I keep looking for because
in Southern California that I keep looking for,
because they look the same, except that the deltagrotus
endoterminata has a black prothoracic collar
that looks like the deltagrotus falminus.
Whereas the other one, I think it's called stovirus,
has a pale prothoracic collar.
And there's no reason why that species shouldn't be here,
but I haven't found it, I've never found it.
And I can not direct post-discollar.
This is in the depressority, which used to be a part of it.
Maybe it makes you sad.
They're hard to identify, don't they still think?
It used to be combined with the other decoformers.
There was some family that today, family, decoformers,
decoformers, as it appeared in the previous checklists,
is now at least two families, and I think three.
Three, and maybe four.
So stovat, stovat, stovat, with the other one.
And we don't have that deal.
So this is the decoformer.
And caterpillars are somewhat easy to find,
because they make shelters, and the shelters are big enough
that you can find them.
Toaster salad feeds on chaperone feed.
And we don't have to.
And they call it, um.
And they call it, um.
And they call it, um.
And they call it, um.
And they call it, um.
And they're just gonna charge anyway.
And they used to be, I don't know,
it's always showing me crazy how.
What's reaching this now?
I don't know, like, how a creeper is in India.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I guess so.
But it was in something that started with,
I don't know.
Anyway, it was split off.
And one of the species, soralea,
is what it used to be, P-S-O-R-A.
So there's a species of agonoptera.
It's called soralea.
And, um, it's not included here.
But that also feeds on this plant.
And when I heard, um, um, soralea.
Soralea really explodes after fire.
So you would expect it to be more common after fire.
But this species, um,
Rosacella, seems to be fairly common,
regardless of whether it's a year or two after fire or not.
It was far more common than soralea.
But when I collected categories,
I don't think that I was a career with species.
But I did with soralea, which is selenken.
And all the species,
I believe all the species overwintered as adults.
So there's a,
that's why you get them throughout the years.
It's not because of multiple generations.
And like I said, they're flattened.
And that flattening enables them to hide in crevices and so forth.
So there's a reason why they flattened.
And that flattening is very common with overwintering species.
Oh, no.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
So most of the deepest soralea are flattened that way.
Okay, which line was because ofpełic.
Yes.
Yes.
You know,
youankenixen for Megal Shepherd.
Okay, what else did you say,
let me just ask.
I didn't ask her if my question is,
how do you actually Henrietta
issue make sure you had that huge data,
what would you make sure you put this really bad pode?
In fact,
I didn't want to risk use all of these species a little bit
here right now.
And then that's like you otra interface
and I got to different些 species here.
And
Davis, where I was really, I used to be excited to get one system, but I think particularly
last year, I don't have that. I got more last year than all other years combined. I just
have this notion that in general, it goes through the long periods, long cycles of, you know, periodic,
and people who work on it, people who always like to attribute it to natural enemies.
But it could be disease, it could be herb creation, spider creation, and the same way.
It was fairly common at the Coal Canyon once I started collecting in those months.
And it has a very consistent pattern, but the brown color is not so consistent.
There are various earth patterns, from yellowish brown, to reddish brown, to chocolate brown,
and various shades of brown. You know, how all cars now seem to be different shades of gray.
I hate it. I'm looking like a navy here.
I brought this ipsilon that I talked about in Davis. It has some little black dash marks near the wing tips
and it seems to be, you know, they seem to be present, you know, the person who, the one that says,
they seem to be present even on the warm specimens.
Some of them look a little bit like some examples of feltria, subterranea, and also peridermal salsia.
And also it has that kind of bluish shade to the high end.
And feltria always has a white pioneer, so it is.
And then the dashes at the tip of the wing come out there.
I think, you know, Ragnar would say, well, how can you confuse them?
But I think in the east, the two species are more dissimilar than other than other than they are.
I'm saying that without ever having a collection in the east, so.
Not right.
Amarvia cune anemone.
I made some mistakes earlier.
There's a large eclairance that, because of its size and general appearance,
I may have recorded this Amarvia.
But I think Amarvia is later in the year, the adults are present later in the year than the Secranus speeches.
But I would say spring records of Amarvia are probably suspect.
And it's really a mistake I shouldn't have made, because the paltry are very different.
One has truncated paltry, and then one has...
Okay, I discussed the measure before.
This is where I, you, you analyze it, because this is where I recorded the bulk of the specimens,
all the ones that this specialist did.
Okay.
Well, I still don't think there was a piece of water.
So I know some of you, the issue of selection asks...
I'm going to kiss myself, and I think the rec packages, everything that I did not give have
and we've got close to every
threshold, I was saying all the vê碑, if I could make much more forヒ chop in,
what is it we're just looking for?
The column form has kind of a lot of white coloration on the leading edge of the four wings when outstretched.
And in varying amounts. And the pattern is otherwise created using blacks and whites.
Whereas the other one, the wing is about mostly down on the trailing edge with the wings outstretched.
And then slight gray on the rest of the wing. So they look very different.
And I've recorded them as two stations because I'm not sure.
But I have been mixed before. And this gray and brown form, the one I call in four species in there,
seems to be less abundant at Coltanian than it is in Davis.
But I'm leaning now much more towards calling in the same species because this year when it was very common in Davis,
I caught one or two specimens that were more intermediate than any between the two forms that I'd ever seen.
And how in, you know, the Western Moth book stated there's very amounts of balance on it.
Maybe he was referring to this other form with the slight gray, this predominantly straight slate gray.
So what do I hold here?
What I hold here...
