Annapena Triangulana, the only known host record was feeding on leaf litter underneath willow tree.
And I had a willow in my yard that I had to have removed because it was damaging my roof.
Ah, so that might be why it looks like it's declining.
And I think I only got one or two this year, but the numbers, there was a brief period where it was pretty big numbers.
And Art brought in some that he found, he said, swarming around ivy, which makes no sense.
But unless they feed on leaf litter, because I don't think they're feeding on the live plants.
But if they're feeding on litter, there's a lot of leaf litter under ivy.
So do you know what year you had your willow tree removed? Do you remember?
What year they had the big numbers? You could look in the...
Well, what, when you had your willow tree removed?
Uh...
I don't remember, but it was...
I could look it up. I could tell you that because I had the roof...
Because I'm wondering if that's what happened here.
Could be.
Anstanoptelia marmorodacta is a terrafora that feeds on mints, various mints.
So it has remained kind of consistently present in my yard, but the numbers may vary according to how many herbs are growing in the yard.
In recent years, I grow...
I have some rosemary that's permanent, but I grow basil every year, and that's about the only one.
And whether the moth's feeding on it or not, I can't say.
And what the neighbors are growing, I can't tell you.
Did this...
Do you think that this is real, that you didn't see it in the first, like, five years or so?
I think it's probably real.
Terraforas are not strongly attracted to light in general.
At least that's kind of the anecdotal information I have on the...
Aproima, this black one.
Powell told me that this was another form of the one that I put a name on.
The name of which...
It's the name I'm using for the Cold Canyon one.
But I think it's a different species.
This is anapronina.
A-P-R-O-A-E.
So you think that...
So this is anapronina nigrella nigrella?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, Jerry suggested that this is another form of nigrella.
But there's one that looks like it, like this one, that goes under a different name on the Moth Photographers Group worksite.
And it could be that they're both feed on the same food plant.
And that he reared both from larvae collected on the same food plant.
The food plant is what used to be called Lotus scoperia, but the name is not the same anymore.
It's no longer in lotus and may not be scoperia anymore either, but, you know.
So do you think that these are distinct species still?
I don't think they're the same species anymore, because I only get the one farm in Davis, and I rarely get the black ones at Cold Canyon.
Right, okay.
I mean, it could be just a different genetics, but, you know, I don't know.
It looks like they're declining here, and those species are declining in Cold Canyon, so...
Well, at Cold Canyon, because it's lotus, and because that's one that probably burned up in the fire.
That's some stuff we need to know.
Yeah.
I think fire is...
Fire and weediness at Cold Canyon, although lotus scoperia is a weedy plant, so...
Arkeps Argarapha is the fruit tree leaf roller, and it may be increasing because I replaced an exotic ash tree with a pluot tree.
Hmm.
But my neighbor always had a plum tree.
Another neighbor had an apricot, which he removed, so...
So, stones root's been around.
It's always around.
But Arkeps Argarapha, it's always associated with oaks.
You find it in the wild near oaks, and it feeds on oak as well.
So, it's polyphagous, but because it feeds on fruit trees, it's got its common name associated with fruit trees.
But that could be why it's increased in my yard.
And it tends to come to light a little bit later than, say, Klepsis and some of the other torcheses.
So, I would think that if it were...
I don't stay up as late as I did when I was younger, so I would think that if it was declining...
That would be because of that?
You know, we would attribute it to turning in earlier, but it's doing just the opposite.
I've been getting more and more in recent years.
So, I think this is real.
Okay.
But I don't have oaks in my yard, so it's kind of odd that I have it.
Maybe they travel further.
But it doesn't feed on low-growing plants as much as some of the other torcheses.
So, Aristotelia fungiferella, I assume, feeds on some kind of fungus, but I don't know that for certain.
I don't know much about this life history.
I had this one called an Aristotelia species one, I think, for a while.
But it's a dead set match for one on Moth Photographers Group.
So, I think this name is probably correct, but I don't know about it.
Aristotelia species two looks like some of the others.
And I'll tell you which ones I think are all confused with one another.
And I'm certain that this is probably two or more species.
Species two.
And there are quite a few Aristotelia, which I did not record anywhere.
The ones that are distinct have been recorded consistently.
And those are ones that I put a name on, for the most part.
Species three looks like two.
Species four looks a little bit like two.
So, Aspila molesta is the oriental fruit model.
An introduced species, a pest of fruit trees.
It's a tiny tortoise, smaller, much smaller than most of the others.
But it seemed to enjoy some good years and not so much recently.
I think it and Prunivora is another small moth.
This is a native one.
Seem to be in decline.
They've had a few good years.
It's about the same time that the, what was the one we were talking about earlier?
The one in leaf litter.
Oh.
Oh.
Yeah.
I can't remember things for 10 minutes.
Me neither.
Too much in the brain.
I'm wondering, Grace, if you could make a note that maybe we could add a non-linear year predictor
just to capture the species that are having parabolic responses.
Yeah, I think it would be interesting to look at ones which coincidentally show similar patterns.
And boom years and bust years.
Because our model doesn't account for that, right?
Yeah.
Well, there is a possibility because certain parasitoids focus on species that have similar feeding niches.
And they'll be like this.
Yeah.
Oscillate with the parasitoids.
There may be a parasite that feeds on things that make a feeding shelter similar to that of those two species.
I think the leaf litter moth was Annapena triangu.
That's the one, yeah.
Okay, we are at, okay, I talked about these last two at the same time pretty much.
Autographia californica, this is, it's somewhat of a pest species and feeds on an array of plants.
You get a lot of them early and a lot of them late and then sporadically in the middle of the year.
And it seems to have very good years once in a while.
I think the year before, last year was pretty good for it.
Yep, it looks like it was.
Oh, well, we don't have the data from last year, right?
Bactra veritana feeds on sedges.
So that's a weird host plant.
And one year, I guess it was last year or maybe the year before, it really showed extreme numbers.
And then it's down again this year.
But it has shown up somewhat consistently all along.
The gissara buxia seemed to be, my recollection was it was somewhat abundant in the early years
and much less so in recent years.
I haven't been getting it anywhere near the numbers that I used to get it.
Okay, so true decline on that one, probably.
Bedelia somnula telefeeds on plants in the Morning Glory family.
And I've kind of given up trying to keep Morning Glory out of my yard, so that may account for.
But also, it's common in the cold months.
So, because I didn't collect in the cold months as often, partly because I didn't and partly because I couldn't,
because there was more rain in the past, that could explain some of this recent abundance.
Blastobasis glandulella, some of these may have been recorded as blastobasine species unidentified.
These I separated out because they're bigger and considerably bigger than all the other blastobases.
And there seems to be two forms.
So, this could, might be two different species, but the pictures online show two different, the same two different phenotypes.
Borchocenia nephrax.
I only think I have a couple of records for this one.
I'm surprised this is here.
Oh, that's when I get more common earlier in the year, though.
So, that may be why you saw a big spike last year, if that is last year or the year before last.
Yeah, I think it goes up to 2023.
Bucoletrics Albertiola feeds on live oaks, I think.
And it may also feed on other oaks, but certainly live oaks.
Bucoletrics is a tiny moth, and they tend to show up in big numbers during a, when the weather's kind of extreme, either real hot or kind of cold.
It looks like he's been recording this.
You're looking, I think you're looking at the other.
I am, yeah.
So, you've been recording this since at least the 90s.
I called it, I called it species two at, I didn't give it the same number of Bucoletrics at Cold Canyon as I did at, this is Cold Canyon, as I did here.
So, Bucoletrics Albertiola is a Bucoletrics species.
It's a different species?
Yeah.
It's like a similar species?
I think this one is Cianothiela, but I'm not sure.
And you have it here, a species.
Oh, so these should be binned?
Yeah, and this is maybe Albertiola, because Bucoletrics species one at Cold Canyon is not the same as, you know, that was something I told you I would resolve, and I haven't done that yet.
But I started on, and I get so far, and I thought, well, this is going to be quick, but it isn't.
It's a lot of work.
Yeah.
So, that needs to be resolved.
So, Bucoletrics is kind of a mess.
But I'll tell you, I'll be able to tell you which is which, but for now, we'll assume that the names I'm using at Davis are correct.
And there's only two, Albertiola and Cianothiela, but I don't think you have enough records to include it here.
Cianothiela is another pantry moth, and I think in the early years, I probably failed to differentiate it from the Festiotes gilvacentella.
So, it's probably underrepresented in the early years.
It's a confoundingly variable species, and in the middle of the year, it's fairly uniform in phenotype.
But late in the year, it's all over the place, different colors, different banding patterns, and everything else.
I've set aside a bunch of them to dissect this year, and I'm hoping to get things straightened out.
Well, we'll dump that one, too, because it's not an outdoor dwelling.
And I'll keep sending you corrections and additions, which I hope will clarify things a bit.
But I would say with, there's a very high probability that many of them were recorded as gilvacentella during the earliest years.
And how many of the earliest years, I can't tell you.
Gotcha.
I think that's called a raisin moth or something like that.
I need to...
Thank you.
