All right, we're back.
Do you have anything at 10, Grace?
No.
Me neither.
Something at 11.
Okay, yeah.
Probably need to wrap up by like 10.15 or 10.30.
Cyanoti sabiniai feeds on Pinus sabiniana.
And it's a small one with narrow black wings.
And I've dissected enough of them to know that at least some of them are the species.
So every Cyanotis with small, black, narrow wings I've called sabiniani.
But every species has a similar looking species.
And many of them have species out here.
Trichostola is one of the more common ones in Davis.
And it has dark wings and a characteristic patch at the base of the forewings that you can't see until the wings are extended.
But it's very diagnostic.
And it seems to be fairly common at Davis as well.
But, see, after Herbert disappeared, that may be, you know, fires were very damaging to oaks.
And the last fire seemed to be devastating to oaks.
So I don't know why there's not so many in that span of years.
But there should have been.
Yeah, because the fire was 2015, right?
Yeah.
You know, the other thing that happens is often I put things away to dissect.
And if I don't get around to it, they get misplaced.
And I don't find them again for several years.
So these troublesome genera, for which I do have genitalia, may be underrepresented across the board.
You know, not just this one.
But, you know, once I learned of that character on the wings of Trichostola, I no longer needed to dissect them.
So, that's the problem you face when dealing with work in process, progress.
And it's going to be in progress forever.
Caristinera rosaceana is, I think they call it the oblique-banded leaf roller or something like that.
And it feeds on a broad number of plants, so it's occasionally a garden pest.
But I don't know that it's an economic pest.
And it's fairly easy to recognize, although there is another Tartricid and another genus, which is somewhat similar.
But it seems to come and go.
So, you know, I got it for a few years in my backyard and then one every now and then.
It showed up with greater frequency on Cold Canyon.
And it has a sinuous leading edge of the forewing, which makes it somewhat easy to identify, except that it's not the only Tartricid with that.
And many Tartricids have that similar-looking banded butter.
But I think that all of these are recorded accurately and inclusively.
There's a tour.
Yeah.
Kids.
Carista Stigma Elegantalis.
As well as Carista Zeppirellis.
One of them is yellow and red and fairly, you know, pops on the sheet so you don't forget to collect them.
Where the other one is more of a nondescript looking and brown.
And it seemed that they were more common in the early days of the survey.
They disappeared for a while and then I started getting Zeppirellis again, I think, or Elegantalis.
I can't remember.
Anyway, the flashy-looking one seems to be less common than it used to be.
And the other one kind of came and went.
These are, I think, Cranbids, but they might be Pirellis.
I'm pretty sure they're Cranbids.
Yep, Cranbid.
Celidasis conspecta.
That's a generic change.
Can you call up a picture and then I'll know what it is?
Oh, okay.
Yeah, that's a Nottadonid.
And it was a subspecies of a more widely distributed one until the recent monographs.
And Wagner thought that Miller, who was the first author of the monographs, was a splitter.
And he kept asking me to get a female so that he could rear these.
But, you know, once you start looking for something for Wagner, they seem to disappear.
And so I never got the...
But, you know, I sent him another species that he was interested in.
And he got all the data wrong in the monographs.
So, in a way, I'm glad he didn't get it.
So, I was able to get an unpublished...
I was able to get an unpublished...
I was able to get an unpublished...
I was able to get an unpublished set of...
I was able to get an unpublished...
I was able to get an unpublished...
A genus that has hundreds and hundreds of species.
And most of the Western species did not seem to be described.
So, I was able to get an unpublished set of genital illustrations of all the name species.
And a few of some that had a manuscript name, a name that hadn't been published.
And when I did the dissection, I was only able to match up a couple of them.
Acordella...
I can't remember now.
I've reared this, and it's either on lotus or on willow.
I think it's on lotus.
And coleophoras are like clothes moths.
They make a feeding shelter and crawl around with it.
So, they're like caddisflies in a way, like terrestrial caddisflies.
And then they stick out their head and mine leaves.
And then they attach to the leaf and spin a cocoon.
But what's interesting is they feed from the end attached to the leaves, but they emerge from the other end.
So, at some point, they turn around within that shelter, which is barely bigger than their diameter.
And clothes moths do the same thing.
So, it's kind of interesting that they do that.
Disco striata feeds on ceanothus.
And this was one I was able to match up.
And not only did I match them up, I went to Berkeley and looked at some identified specimens.
And so, both the genitalia and specimens at Berkeley look like this one.
So, these are probably all recorded and all recorded correctly.
Both of these are very similar looking.
But in the preface to that unpublished set of genitalia illustrations,
the authors caution that some species look like other species and you need to dissect them to be sure.
But it's hard to get things published that are small moths that most people don't care very much for.
Condica MRSA was, when I first started the survey, known as Droughtia.
Droughtia, something or other, completely different species, different genus, different species.
I think it may feed on a plant that, I can't think of.
So, Wagner was working on these for a while and he had me send him food plant.
I can't remember the name of it, but it's one of the plants that's down in the stream bed.
Rather than up in the chaparral zone or in the woody areas.
Do you know what it looks like?
Pardon me?
The plant?
Oh, Droughtia Lunata was the former name of this one.
Mm-hmm.
And, uh...
Do you think it's native?
I think so.
And there is another condica called Al...
Al...
Al...
Al something or other.
This is somewhat similar.
And before I realized there were two species, I may have confused some of the less recorded species with, um...
Droughtia Lunata.
This moth has a long flight period.
And that could mean that there's multiple generations or it could mean that it overwinters as an adult or does not lay the eggs till late in the year.
I don't know.
So if any droughtial lunata remain in your database, they should be changed to condica mercy.
Oh, are these black widows?
Oh, my God.
Oh, we can move if you want.
But I think they're coming and going pretty good.
Cosmia Kalami is a Noctua. There was a paper on them recently which may have some information
on whether they're native or not. I think they're native but I don't know for sure.
Fairly easy to recognize. It has a band with a
little wave in it that's consistent and different than you see in any other banded.
There are other species in the genus but this seems to be the only one around here.
And they range in color from almost white to
kind of a soft brown in color. And the band is sometimes contrasting
considerably with the ground the rest of the wing.
Crambus spariolus is a crambus. There are with a white
streak down near the leading edge of the forewing.
As are other crambus species. These are sod moths. They feed in the soil
or the root crown of grasses. And
I suspect they do better in good rain years than in poor rain years but I don't know.
In Davis it disappeared in my yard for a long time and then came back.
I thought it had completely disappeared and had been replaced by the
introduced non-native
lawn moth. But it came back.
Cydia latiferiana is the filbert moth, I think. Am I correct?
I think so. Let's see. Yep. Filbert worm.
Okay. Okay. It's a filbert worm moth is what it is.
The specialist who works on this part of tortrices believes that this is a complex of species
under one name. There's quite a bit of variability and he thinks that what might be going on is that
there's host races that are becoming specialized and by doing so are also
becoming sexually isolated from other host races.
So this may be either a case of host race races that are evolving into species
species or host races which because of the pests are now alongside one another and
merging to become one species. It's hard to know what the direction is going on. You know,
we had the same thing going on with the moss. I studied spruce budworms. They were host specific
most of the times and most of the range but not so much in other places and they hybridized and outbreak
years. So it was a confusing situation going on. They have different pheromones but a lot of other
characteristics. But you know these isolating mechanisms broke down under outbreak conditions.
We made it to the D's. Do you think we should stop now or keep going?
It's probably a good stopping point.
So many different plants. It could be these changes in frequency are due to
availability of some of the other hosts and it may be that these different host races are
out competing one another. I don't know. But because it feeds on acorns and oaks
have gotten hammered by the fires that may account for the decline.
He has one. Oliver has one. Oliver has one. I was looking for it now.
We're just going to kind of name moth.
Dazipyga alterno squamilla is a much more spectacular moth than its name.
This is one that once you remember the name you don't forget because it's hard to remember the name.
But if you look at pictures it's quite a flashy moth. I think it's on conifers.
But Greg got one in his backyard oddly enough. See it has this band here which can be really
there may be more pictures down below. So it varies in intensity and often there's this bright streak
through it. So I can't miss it. So they've all been recorded. But there's another Dazipyga that's
somewhat similar but not so similar that it could be confused with it. But it's also in California.
And I never got that one. So one Davis record and many
collected and recorded. Anything that's flashy, yeah.
Than something that's drab and small and boring. And it's also more likely to be
identified better because people have described them better.
Yeah, I mean that's kind of the danger of harvesting moths from a sheet or even collecting them with a net.
There's a bias.
Your eye is drawn to some species more than others.
You know, I told Greg when he was out there to only collect macros. There's two reasons for that.
You know, but partially because he only collected, he focused on the flashy ones and never collected the
boring looking ones. But also he put them all together and a big moth that's
fluttering around will damage the small moths. So I always kept the small ones separate from the big ones when I collect.
