Okay, starting back up.
On to Pigridia and Mert-Feldela.
This is a Blastobasin and it disappeared completely in my yard for a while and then reappeared.
Blastobases in general, most Blastobases seem to get into like abandoned feeding shelters of other Lepidoptera.
So they kind of scavenge the remains, you know, frass and just debris left behind by others.
And they're hard to find if you look for the larvae, but I got a number of them just by clipping branches one time
and bringing them into the lab, sticking it in their bag and Blastobases came out.
But Pigridia, Pigridiines, I think, are more prone to be specialists.
And this moth looks like pictures of Pigridia and Mert-Feldela.
And for a while, Moth Photographers Group showed its distribution to be in California,
then removed it, and now I think it's brought it back again.
So I don't know whether what I'm calling Pigridia and Mert-Feldela is that species or not.
So there's some doubt as to the specific identification.
The second thing is some of the pictures online show a form that's different than the ones that I record as Mert-Feldela.
And they might have been recorded in the wastebasket Blastobases.
So that's a problem.
This might not be complete.
If we have the all-gray form, that I wouldn't have recorded as Mert-Feldela.
What would you have recorded it as?
Do you have another one?
I call it Blastobases.
What do I call it?
Blastobases.
Unidentified Blastobases.
Yeah.
Blastobases have very fancy...
There is a guy who specializes them in the Smithsonian.
I thought about sending them specimens.
But then I heard that he sits on them forever.
At least, you know, I have the option of at least dissecting them and sorting them out by ones that have similar genitalia.
And I would hope to be able to associate males with females.
But Blastobases in general are...
There is a character on the antennae that can be used to separate Pigridia from the other genera of Blastobases.
So that might be...
It might not be this species, but it's definitely this genus.
Yeah.
Jerry originally told me it was Pigridia.
Okay.
But there might also be other individuals in Blastobases that are actually also this species.
Well, no, there may be other Pigridia that look like Mert Feldella.
Okay.
Because for some reason, they pulled the dots indicating that there were specimens.
It was known from California, often mouth photographers group.
And they may have been reinserted.
I don't know.
So can we call this Pigridia spa?
I call it Pigridia Mert Feldella question mark.
And we're using the question mark then to indicate discomfort.
See, it has this orange here and a fairly strong band.
And see, now there's no records in the West.
But the one we get...
And if you scroll down...
But, like, the shirts don't fit me if they're small because...
They don't show...
They don't show everything up here.
And I'm like, shit!
They don't show it anymore.
But the ones I get look exactly like that.
Aw!
Oh, my God, the manatees!
So, um...
The manatees are adorable.
It may be that this guy at the Smithsonian says, no, it doesn't occur in the West.
But that may be based upon he hadn't seen any specimens from the West.
Right.
I mean, you can't...
And people don't send them to him because he sits on them.
Yeah.
When people say this is a distribution, it's really based upon specimens I examined, reports,
or this, that, or the other thing.
And some people are very conservative and will only base it on specimens that they've examined
where other people base it upon multiple sources.
Platyedra sub-scenaria is an introduced species for sure.
Platyedra sub-scenaria is an introduced species for sure.
And it has a back print, too.
And it was a...
I don't know that we have it at Cold Kenyon.
It was originally intercepted at San Francisco Airport.
Hmm, hmm.
Well, it was originally identified from a specimen that was intercepted at San Francisco Airport.
And it turned out that Jerry had been collecting it in his backyard in Berkeley,
so he was going to write a paper on it.
Oh, yeah.
I think the judge will be.
And then...
Yeah.
He found that both I and Greg had specimens from around here,
and I think Bill had one from Sacramento or something.
So it turned out here.
And then when the paper went out for review, it went to CDFA.
And it turned out they've been getting hundreds and hundreds of them in cotton fields.
And it's a minor pest of cotton.
And I think it's imported from the Middle East.
I think it feeds on Malbaceae.
And the abundance kind of comes and goes depending on whether I have hollyhocks in my yard that year or not.
So this could be artificial increase.
I've been tended to grow hollyhocks.
Once you grow hollyhocks, you can't get rid of them because they...
So you think that they're, like, increasing in your yard, and so you're getting more and more of them.
Yeah.
So it might not be a regional trend.
Well, that and other people are planting hollyhocks, too, because they're pretty drought tolerant.
And they're showy.
So, you know, we're in one of those neighborhoods where the residents have adopted landscaping that the city used to do.
You know, they have that adopted part.
I mean, we're too cheap to keep your neighborhood up anymore.
Yeah, exactly, because a lot of those people will say, you know, pesticides, they never talk.
Plotinotus stoltana is another introduced pest species.
I think it's called the omnivorous leaf roller or something like that.
So very seldom at Cove Canyon.
This is one of those pest species.
Yeah.
And it's found throughout the year.
The numbers vary from year to year, but I think this is real, that the trend is it's getting increased.
So it's not found in the Bay Area, for example.
Very common here.
Yeah, that's what I was wondering, because, like, the only other reason that I can think of it.
You put that John thinks it's increasing, even though it's not showing up.
He's on a lot of things.
I'm never asleep.
I think that's a common name.
I'm not sure.
Clodia interpunctella is the coddling moth.
And I think it's probably introduced.
And in my yard, it could be on my pluot tree.
But it gets in walnut husk and things like that, too.
So not at all.
Well, I don't know that I have any records from Cove Canyon whatsoever.
And then I was like, that's a lot of old fears.
And then I was like, what if I did, like, harvestmen?
Flutella xylosella is the diamondback moth.
There's nothing known about them.
It's all doing a lot of this.
A cosmopolitan species on...
Tomato?
Pardon me?
Is it tomato?
Solanaceae?
What?
No, it feeds on the mustard family.
Oh.
Which is surprising.
I don't know.
I saw one.
Would you say you think it might be declining in Davis?
No, I don't think it is.
Obrus casei.
It seems to enjoy outbursts and then disappear and then come back.
And...
There are other native species that look very similar to it.
And I've only recorded one of them.
And I think from my yard.
You know, this is a notorious moth because it was the first one to be shown to have become resistant to BT.
So, Grace, we shouldn't be seeing that day positives go up over time, but that we have negative trend, or that we have a negative overall trend, right?
Is it brass acaciae?
Is that what mustard's like?
Mm-hmm.
It is a cotton.
Isn't it day positives that we wanted on the axis, so that...
Yeah, but it's not fractional day positives for this graph.
Got it.
Got it.
So, if collection effort is changing in tandem, it might...
I understand.
Okay.
One of the host plants is ericimum, wallflower, and fireweed, among the other.
And I got a wildflower seed mixture one year, and after I took out one plant in my eye, I just threw these down.
And it turned out the only one that has persisted is ericimum, and it reproduces, it replaces itself each year.
You know, it dies back, and so it's not a perennial, it's an annual, but it reproduces quite readily from the seed production.
But I have a varying amount of offspring each year, so some of this is due to the existence of ericimum in my yard.
And it may also be subject to whether people are growing winter vegetables, you know, cabbages and other things.
And, you know, some of the weedy mustards are disappearing now that some of the fields are being converted to housing.
But nobody knows where it originated.
It's cosmopolitan, so anywhere where people live, you can find Plutella xylis.
So, you know, Linnaeus described it, so it was already in Europe, and maybe originated in Europe.
But some people think that it originated in the New World, because there are a number of very similar species in the New World that are not in the Old World.
No skipper.
Pryognis.
Pryognis.
Pryognitis Robinii is a...
Pryognis.
All the ground.
First of seed.
The family?
The family.
Caussidae.
Caussidae.
Yeah.
Casas are some kind known as goat moth and I always wondered why they were
called goat moth and I had a book on South African moths and the larvae are
kind of a pet they go into tree wounds and some of them are capable of boring
into healthy trees and the ex scrimma that comes out of the boreholes this it
was was according to one derivation of the name smells like goats has a goaty
odor but I don't know if that's why they're called and this is a very
widespread species the male is small and has smaller much smaller than the
female and has a horn orange hind wing whereas the female is all gray it's rare
to absent along coastal California for some reason and it just shows up
sporadically in my yard Greg had it fairly common in his yard
a dying cherry tree and I think that if you have wounded trees in your yard they
are attracted to the tree wounds so I don't know I think the numbers are too low
really to identify a trend but possibly
Procorodes Truxaliata is a geometrid that feeds on baccarus coyote bush and there was
when I first came here there's a guy from Australia who is investigating this for
a possible biocontrol of coyote bush in Australia where it is a major pest coyote
bush not the mall and I don't have coyote I don't have baccarus in my yard but there is some in the
linear park to the east of the green zone I guess they call it just one block to the east of my house you
know plus Davis pond is one block to the west so there's a lot of coyote bush around both
one both planted ones and non-planted ones so it's around and it shows up fairly regularly
Proxenus Mindara was identified originally by Ron Robertson who was very good on it but he
said I'd guess when he identified it so I at some time decided it could be one or the other and
possibly both and apparently there's a character in the the genitalia of one species but not the other
is available online so you know when the other ones is available I'll probably dissect them but I set a
number aside but whether we have one species or two I don't know but every once in a while they seem to
show up in big numbers and then back down for a while this p-r-o-x it starts at Proxenus
this along with beet army worm and that carriage line in Montana which I've mentioned they're right
next to one another in the checklist and all of them seem to have population like wax and wane from
time to time spodoptera seemed yeah spodoptera was still the most common to a metro to buy yard this year
but it was down in numbers do you think that um it's native i think so
but again that's
pirellis farinalis is a
stored it's the grain moth a grain moth or something like it
farina you know farina is what some kind of boiled wheat
