Saphida demelis is a noctuid that looks a little bit like one of the agiris species and also one
species in a different genus so if you're not careful you can pin the wrong name on all you
can confuse all three of those species with one another when we get to the other species I'll
I'll point out what it was Sudixentera habrazana is a tartricid that feeds on oaks and flies in the
winter months I got one in Davis for the first time either last year or the year before and it's
the common early year tartricid at cold cannon but maybe with the oaks getting burned out we
won't see so many in the future oaks are going to take a long time to recover because you know you
get seedlings right away but a mighty oak takes years yeah Pseudobryomima phallax this is a noctuaid that feeds on ferns and Tim McCabe worked you know he wanted to rear it because he didn't know the food plant but I have previously reared it from San Bruno mountain but I called it a different species and those two species are easily confused with one of the other species that I've ever seen in the
So whether this phallus is the correct name or not I don't know but this is the name McCabe used and he's an expert on noctuaids so it's probably correct but potentially we have two different species here
And the other species I think it's called Muscosa
M-U-S-C-O-S-A
Yeah
Yeah
Terratea
This is a confusing genus of gray, white and black moth
And Wagner recently told me that he thinks that the monograph that Fred Rinds did is totally messed up
But
But he has a bad opinion of him
Yeah, he has no respect for him
Terratea can be confused with similar looking genera in the tribe Bistinini
You know, Bistin betularia is the famous
Salt and pepper moth
Yeah
So the two that were most confused with one another were Terratea succurba and one that begins with L and I don't have the name
The Mary area I think is the other ones
And they look very very similar to one another but one has longer palpy than the other
And once you sort them out by palpy and you have them side by side
They don't look, the ones with longer palpy don't look like the ones with the shorter palpy
But the difference in palpy length is very very subtle
And
There is
I called everything succurba in the beginning but probably some of those are misidentified
And I think I have a
A
La Mary area or succurba
Entry at the table
To
Deal with the specimens that I didn't retain
But recent ones I've been careful about
I was more careful about identifying them
This
Pyralini
Pyralis question mark
It's a common moth and
I think we could probably give it a name but I don't know whether it'd be the good name
But I think it's all one species
And
Somewhat similar
Excuse me to Arta
A-R-T-A
And some other
Cram vines
I guess it's a pyralid
It's a true pyralid
It's just a pyralion
Pyrausta
Moranalis
Pyrausta
Some of the species are hard to tell apart from one another
Moranalis is one of them
And
But
The ones that it is most confused with
Don't seem to be at Cold Canyon
But
There is one in my backyard
That's fairly common
That
Has one form that resembles this
Quasi
Salabria
Has been moved from genus to genus to genus
Recently
And
I think it feeds on oaks
Feeds on oaks
But I'm not certain about it
It's a Fisotime pyralid
It's a Fisotime pyralid
Raphia
Freighter
Cinderella
It went under the name of Cinderella
Um
And then
Several
Putative species
Were
Um
Are now listed as subspecies of freighter
Uh
This one feeds on willow
I know
That
Recurve area
New species
I can't think of the genus for that
No
Oh, okay
Um
I think this is a galicaid
And it was one that there's a manuscript name exists for it
And it's a fairly distinct one
I think it's one of the oak species that um
Uh
Opler reared
In his
Oaksis islands
Work
Cool
Rutenia sabiniana
Um
Feeds on pinus sabiniana
Obviously
It's a
Oathrutine
Um
Tortricid
Easy to identify
Um
The generic placement
The
The former placement was synonymized with Rutenia
Um
Recently
So early
Spreadsheets
It's in the genus Petrova
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephanias
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Sopました
Toxvania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
Cephania
There's a manuscript for a monograph that's well under the way,
but the biggest genus was being done by a co-author of the two volumes,
two or more volumes that it will be, and he passed away.
And he hadn't been making progress to the satisfaction of the other authors.
I don't know if and when this will be published, but it could be coming.
Scoperia pallilaris. Scoperia are crambids that feed on mosses,
and I think this is the name for it, just based on similarity to photographs of it,
but it might be something else, and it could be more than one species.
Powell was reluctant to put a name on it for me.
Scrobipopula lutecella is a noramoshmine.
Noramoshmine is G-N-O-R.
Delikia, and it feeds on Indian paintbrush.
And it's one of the few noramoshmines that I can put a name on,
but potentially there's a similar-looking species that I don't know about,
but I think what I've been calling this are all one species, but I can't be sure.
Seracosima, I think there's three or four species of Seracosima,
all of which are at Cold Canyon,
and I have dissected a number of them.
This was one of the groups that Ringe worked on and so far has not met with scorn from Wagner,
so I think it's pretty good.
The genitalia separate into two different species,
but you can tell them apart, most of them apart, on the basis of wing pattern.
But there are some similarities between the two.
I'm surprised that this is the only one that made it.
I got one specimen in Davis, but
Slossonia rubartinka is a fairly distinct moth.
Noctua, I don't know very much about it.
Sosipatria therberii is a phisotine pyralid,
and like most phisotines, looks like most other phisotines.
You know, it's just one with white and black and every shade of gray in between.
It has kind of a more prominent medial band that makes it somewhat recognizable,
but I cannot swear that I've recorded every specimen.
I believe it's an oak moth.
Spargania magnoliata.
Spargania magnoliata, this is a geometride with a kind of,
it's kind of, I think it's among what they call carpet moths,
but only because it looks kind of like a carpet.
And the hind wing is kind of pinkish out here,
but in other parts of the distribution,
I think this is a transcontinental species,
the hind wing is less pinkish than out here.
And I think even within California, there are some different ones.
So subspecific names have been given to various populations.
And it could be that when they look at them closer,
there's more than one species are in magnoliata.
Sparganothus senecionana is the tortrici that I mentioned feeds on low-growing plants,
so it's abundant after fire,
and you get a lot of low-growing plants,
quite polyphagous.
But even when there hasn't been a fire for a while,
you still get them.
But archips then becomes the most common tortricid instead of Sparganothus.
Spodoptera exigula, we talked about before.
This is a non-native species.
But it's, you know, it's a major pest species now.
Spodoptera prefica.
This is one I mentioned before.
There's a similar-looking species that's been reported from our area,
but I haven't seen that one.
That's the yellow-striped army worm or something like that.
Stamnodes is the genus that Wagner student Tanner Mattson is working on.
And one, two, three.
I think this is most of the species, but not all of them.
And Affiliata, what is going under the name Affiliata,
is apparently more than one species.
And Wagner told me that ours are not Affiliata of Southern California.
But without knowing where the type locality is,
I don't know which ones are the true Affiliata
and which ones are the pseudo-Affiliata.
These Stamnodes is a very, very difficult genus.
But when you dissect them,
the genitalia are very different from one another.
And I chose to call the most common species,
Ceno nymphata.
But this one probably will include a number of synonyms
that are currently listed as valid species.
And Tanner is keeping his work pretty close to the breast for now.
And, you know, he's got a postdoc at the Smithsonian.
So it seems like, you know, he's very productive,
but it seems like he's involved in something else at the Smithsonian.
And it may be a while before we get the last word on this.
Uluwata is a very distinct one.
All of these fly in the winter months.
And the early one, there's different species fly in late fall to early winter,
then fly in.
So the ones you get at the end of the year are, in the most part,
different than the ones you get in the early years.
But there's a few that cross over.
And probably with more collection dates in late December and early January,
you'd find that there's more.
But the latest ones are different than the earliest ones.
Still, Boses, Dulcito.
I'm trying to blank on this for the moment.
It's okay.
We can skip it for now.
Yeah.
I'll make a note.
I'll look it up when I review the notes.
Stretia pacificus.
Stretia is a genus of noctuids.
They're very attractive-looking noctuids.
And most of the species you can't identify by genitalia.
But the patterns are very distinct from one another.
And we were giving this a different name,
but it turned out Stretia pacifica, the female genitalia,
is different than the genitalia of the other species.
So once I dissected the genitalia of the female,
then this was the name we decided to use.
It feeds on ribes,
or whatever ribes is being called now.
I think it's been divided into two genera.
Like currents?
Pardon me?
Currents.
Yeah.
But I think that some are ribes,
and some are, you know,
on the basis of whether they have spiny fruit or not.
There's some character.
The Simoca signatella we discussed in Davis.
This might be an introduced species.
I don't know much about it,
but it's, you know,
it's in that small family,
Autostickidae,
and formerly placed in Blastobasidae,
and I think it's been bounced around in different families.
Synchora errata licoriae is another green geometry.
This is a common species in Davis.
And it was a,
the caterpillar was a cover boy or cover girl on Science one year.
So,
and the person who wrote that article came out to Cold Canyon with me.
So,
I was,
so that's,
you know,
the name seemed familiar.
Tealeopsis baldiana is a galakia that feeds on poison oak.
And it's a specialist.
I have not reared it.
I don't.
Fair.
Yeah.
But Powell has.
And it's,
it's fairly easy to recognize.
So I think all I recorded.
And poison oak,
you know,
burns readily.
It disappears late in the year,
but it regenerates rapidly.
And can get up to enormous sizes.
You know,
it gets to be as big as,
gets tree sized in many places.
I'm,
and I don't.
