But we also have more from Cold Canyon.
Cold Canyon is...
But we'll get together another day for this.
Pandora's box.
Okay, very good.
Syncora errata is one of those green geometries.
I love those.
Somewhat of a generalist.
And maybe more than one species involved under that name.
Wagner is kind of working on green geometries.
And he keeps telling me that certain species are...
DNA evidence suggests there's more than one species.
So that's part of the reason why I used the specific name here.
I don't know whether...
You know, I didn't update all the names at Cold Canyon yet.
It looks like that's updated.
Yeah.
Well, I think...
I've been to Panama and it's hot when it's hot.
Yeah, I linked them.
Grace updated the names.
Yeah.
But I worked up.
Tacoma Ferriela is a place of time.
Feeds on mistletoe.
Because it's just...
I'm pretty adventurous, but I don't go meet strangers in the cemeteries.
You know, my willow tree had a lot of mistletoe in it.
And that may be why it's declining, but, you know, because I took the mistletoe out.
But it turns out there's mistletoe in a lot of the other trees in my yard and in my neighborhood as well.
That's funny.
Easy to identify.
So this is one of those spisotines.
It's unlike any other.
So everyone is recorded and everyone is correctly identified.
Unless it's more than one species.
Yeah.
They're kind of large.
They're very good for children.
Yeah.
Telfuza sigulatella is a kalechid that feeds on oaks.
And I know in the Bay Area it's on coastal live oak.
And I don't know whether it feeds on all oaks or just live oaks.
Because I have a cheap set, too, that don't look like pipes.
But they were $29,000.
You collect oaks, you put it in a bag, and you get Telfuza.
And the adults are long-lived.
So I think what happens is they emerge in the late spring, maybe mid spring, and then are present as adults and lay eggs the following year so that the caterpillars can feed on the unhardened out leaves of oaks before the tannins build up.
I think that's the strategy of a lot of things that feed on oaks.
Terenolata polygera is in a...
This is in the primitive...
What used to be...
Now it's in Erebiti.
Or Erebiti, I'm not sure.
So this is one of the more primitive of the noctuoid.
What used to be noctuos, has really weird forelegs.
And I didn't realize, and I looked at it under the scope one, and I go, whoa.
And Wagner says that it's...
Please find leaf litter.
You're okay, baby. Come on.
Leaf litter.
Our father couldn't understand the matter.
Exactly.
But, uh...
So...
If anybody knows, he does.
And, um...
It shows up fairly regularly over a long period of time in my yard.
And I see it less frequently at Cold Canyon.
I don't know whether it made the analysis or not.
It does.
But it's more common in my backyard, but, you know, all of the leaf litter blows into the corner of my patio, over which I hang my sheet, so...
So, it's a little...
This was for the...
It's a little...
You don't know if people are wearing it.
And, you know, it's actually pretty stiff.
Yeah.
It means they're wearing...
Chicapluzia me is the alfalfa looper, I think.
It's a semi-looper.
It's not a looper.
True loopers are geometrious.
Semi-loopers are a Rebidae that...
Whose larvae don't have the full volume of prolegs.
And so they move like an inchworm.
But they have more prolegs than do geometries.
I was curious about that.
Because this is a pest, too.
Because I think I grew basil, and it was on my basil.
Well, I think it's notorious for being on, I think, a lot of forage crops.
So, my brother lived in New Mexico for a while, and he said one year that they were everywhere.
And yet, around where he lived, they grew hay or something that, you know, was baled and turned it to hay.
So, I suspect it's somewhat of a generalist, but I can't say.
And Greg seems to get it more frequently in his yard than I do in mine, but I don't know if that's real or not.
Trichopolia alfkeniae.
I don't...
There is a monograph on the old genus in which it was replaced, and I might be able to find information about what it feeds on, but I have no idea.
I think it's native and probably a generalist.
And it's in the family of noctuas that have hairy eyes, and some of the literature says it has hairy eyes, but when I look under the scope, it doesn't seem to have hairy eyes.
Nor does the other species, ruffula, which is in the genus.
But I've done the dissections, and the genitalia are correct for these two species of what is now trichopolia.
And this genus was coined since the new checklist.
So, this name came off of Moth Photographers Group.
Wow. Brand new.
Eudea profondalis.
I think this one...
I looked it up when I made that display for Moth Night, but I don't remember what it feeds on.
I think this is one that more commonly flies during the day than at night, because, you know, kicking around the yard, I can often kick one up.
So, there could be circumstances under which you get more at night than you do in other rooms.
It looks like it's declining in Davis and Cold Canyon.
Do you think that could be correct?
Showing decline.
Eudea profondalis.
Now, there are similar-looking profondalis, and I got this name from Powell.
And when I did look on the paper on Eudea, this seemed to be the correct name for it.
But there's a possibility that we have similar species around here which would have been erroneously recorded as profondalis.
I'm not about making mistakes, and the people who say they never make mistakes are fooling themselves, or they're Donald Trump.
Last one?
That's the last one.
Zeno Leckia, Querciphaia.
Actually, I can't play that thing with my hearing.
Fuson Oaks, as the name implies.
It flies late in the year, and Opler had a name for another species, and I thought I knew how to tell them apart.
Opler did that Oaks' Island paper, you know, which is semi-famous, I guess, among, well-known to ecologists, anyway.
But I don't think the species was ever described.
It may have been Staspha, I think, as the other species.
And I thought I knew how to record them, but now I'm recording everything as Querciphaia or other species, because I'm not certain that.
You know, that's the danger.
When you think you know that this is a diagnostic character, once you start sorting them out, using that as a character.
I learned that lesson, you know, when I took systematic entomology at Berkeley.
I got a box of bees, and then I started sorting them out.
I sorted out these because they had more antenatal segments than these, but males have more antenatal segments than females.
So, it was a rookie mistake.
I bet you never made that mistake again.
Well, I learned that that was a sex-linked character.
There are many secondary sex-linked characters on Lepidopter that make it easy to identify one sex, but can't tell the other sex.
Wow, we're done.
Okay, we got through Davis.
That's crazy.
Congratulations.
Before you came, I was talking to Grace about how I got to the names that I'm using.
But the final thing that I have to say is it's an iterative process.
I revisit things over and over and over again.
And sometimes it takes me years to get a name.
And I thought, you know, like I told you about that Ectomyelois serotoninae.
What was the person talking about?
It was just a picture.
I finally got the name because I saw a paper on that genus in China.
And I said, well, that looks like my moth.
And, you know, it turned out it was in the U.S.
And there was another one that was similar.
It was a moth that Art had discovered the larva and reared some out.
And nobody could identify it.
Greg had a specimen from his yard, and I caught it.
Turned out we got quite a few for a while, but nobody was able to get a name on it.
We speculated on the genus and so forth.
But it didn't quite fit.
And then there was a paper in the newsletter about this European moth had been collected in Idaho and Montana, I think, maybe Wyoming.
And it was our moth.
And it fed on prickly lettuce, which was what Art found the larvae on.
You know, I wrote the author.
I said, this is California.
He said, well, since I wrote that, now it's known to be throughout the Northwest and California.
Wow, spreads fast.
You just, you have to be able to implant the image of what something looks like in your head and put the pieces together.
Well, I think the fact that you need to go back and ID things and update things and how intricate it is is why other people don't do this.
Well, they don't do it because most of the specimens go to a museum or something.
You know, you have to have a manageable number of specimens to revisit and a manageable number of species.
So, to me, the biggest waste of time is to go to New Guinea or something and collect, you know, a thousand different species of moths.
That'll never be, you know, only the big flashy ones will ever be identified.
Unless a specialist visits your collection and picks out things that are of interest.
Thanks, guys.
Thanks, guys.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Yeah.
