Okay. Peripediasia. Peripediasia tetarellus is the common long moth.
Consequently, we don't see it at Cold Canyon. Or if we have, it's only been an
odd specimen here and there. It replaced the native long moth. And this year it
seemed to be down in numbers a little bit. But in general, it's fairly common.
And maybe this trend that you're seeing of it disappearing is because people are
taking their lines up.
That's interesting.
Peripediasia. Some forms of feltia subterranea look very similar to
Peripediasia. But the hind wing is kind of a giveaway for this one. And I rely pretty heavily
on hind wing. The hind wing of this one is kind of a bluish pearl essence. So it's kind
of like a blue oil slip or something. Big moth throughout the year. I think it has a common
name. And I think it's a generalist. And it's a, I think it's a cutworm. So the larva is in the soil.
Would you consider it a pest?
Occasional pest.
I mean, anything's a pest if it eats something you want.
Yeah. Cutworms, you know, are sometimes pests of cut flowers because they cut the flower before
you do. You know, they're cutworms because they cut things off at the stem.
Periploca ceanothiella and Periploca juniperi
are very difficult to tell from one another just based on appearance.
Ceanothiella is, the name suggests fees on ceanothus. It's larger and flies earlier in the year.
Chiniperi is smaller and flies later in the year. They're both black, shiny, shiny black species. And
the person who did the monograph on the family Cosmopterigina suggested that the sheen has a
different appearance to it. But they don't all shine. So there's some that I continue to
record as either or. And the reason for that is they're in, they're kind of,
not that hard. Neither real small nor less small. Even, these are not big. They're all small moths.
So there aren't reliable characteristics? Genitalia. Oh, okay. And I have dissected a number of both.
And I have, you know, even though they're small moths, I've been fortunate to have not
mess them up while I dissected them. And they're clearly we have juniperi. And clearly we have
Ceanothiella. But whether we have any of the other paripoca species, that's a possibility.
There was one from Cold Canyon that I dissected that I couldn't identify. It didn't match up
well with any of the illustrations of the monograph. Juniperi, you know, we discussed this
before. There's no native conifers in the valley. It's described from Sacramento. So it was probably
introduced on ornamental junipers. And ornamental junipers are kind of a good child tolerant plant.
So you can tell, like, the entire ecological history of this region through the lens of the moths.
That's right. I didn't hear you. You could tell the entire ecological
history of this region through the lens of moths. Well, you can find reasons to explain things.
Right. Well, that's what stories are. It's just so cool how they do different things.
Okay. So I still record some as either or. Okay. So that would mean that not every specimen
has been recorded. And before I realized that we had juniperi, I might have recorded some as Ceanothiella.
Okay. So it's probably best. Only after I got these really. Lump them? Lump them? Yeah.
It would be nice if we had the collection in front of us so you could see what they look like.
Oh, my God. I forgot to say. That's something. It's always a possibility.
Pyromyzen. There was a guy at the Smithsonian who did a monograph on the genus. This is the geometry.
It's a big geometry. And the species are all kind of similar to one another.
And as it turned out, he recognized a large number of Western species as well as a large number of
ones outside of the West. And it turned out that many of these Western species
had similar, if not identical, genitalia.
Well, recently Wagner has done some DNA analysis. And it turns out that most of these Western species
that could not be differentiated on the basis of genitalia have the same DNA fingerprints.
So I think this may be
synonymized with another species.
But for the longest time, because the late flying ones look different than the early flying ones,
I thought we might have two species here. You know, so I got the monograph and I looked and I was
disappointed to see that the genitalia wouldn't work. So there could be regional variation, but also
temporal variation. That explains the difference.
It looks like it's increasing in both Davis and Cold Canyon.
It could be.
Wagner said something about its abundance. And no, it wasn't this. There's a noctua that looks similar.
Do you think it's native?
I do. Yeah. It's everywhere. And it's out in the Channel Islands.
It's everywhere. Especially now that it's several species are probably one.
I mean, it's a big genus.
There's a lot of species and many in the East.
And also the things that run into each other, but like...
Yeah, I actually recognize the genus.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Petrophila confusalis.
I didn't know how to tell them apart for a long time.
But it turned out that the genitalia...
Harry Lang, who used to be on the faculty here,
he worked on aquatic moths and these have aquatic larvae.
So, Grace, in Cold Canyon, sorry.
It's, you see, Jalicollis or Confuselius, and then you have Jalicollis separate.
Yeah, actually, same thing here. So, I think they should all be bent.
Yeah, they need to be bent.
So, this like Euquomius, I couldn't differentiate from one another.
And then after I learned how to tell them apart,
and this was, I was able to confirm it once I found illustrations of the genitalia,
one of which was in Harry Lang's book.
Harry Lang wrote this section on
aquatic moths and aquatic insects of California.
And that's where, oh, you know, there it is.
Then when I dissected them, the differences are subtle, but now I can tell them on external appearance.
So, the fact that either or is declining is because there's fewer or none that I now
describe to that. So, this is probably one that should be reconsidered, just like Euquomius,
either or.
Yes, fire up. Nobody's going over it. Nobody cares.
So, this funeral, I didn't get, and then it's become increasingly common in recent years.
And it doesn't, it's not an early or late flying one. It's right there.
Yeah. So, that one's a genuine increase.
Yeah, so, but, you know, before I collected it in Davis, the person who wrote the monograph
that includes this genus had records of this species from Davis. So, it's not a recent arrival
in Davis. It's been around, but it took a while to get to my neighborhood, I guess.
Yes. And I'm not sure what it feeds like, but it might be in the monograph.
You know, I think all the records in the monographs are on that
database that's online that you can check. But if not, you can check the monograph.
Yeah. Yeah, I did look up one of them they talked about last time.
Um, Eudonia Spenceri. I said I didn't know what the host plant was. And so, I looked it up,
and they didn't, they didn't know at the time that the monograph was written either. So,
Oh, okay. So, no one knows.
So, no one knows.
Physiotodes musadella.
Physiotodes musadella and Physiotodes alatella
were kind of combined. And Physiotodes is now three species recognized in the US.
And I've been calling all the Western ones musadella. But whether they all are or not,
I don't know. I don't know what was used to differentiate musadella from alatella.
But alatella was considered to be a European species, I think. But it's
they're calling the Eastern component of what we used to call alatella or alatella,
subspecies of musadella. They're calling them alatella. So, I'm not quite certain whether
it's a native species or not. And I don't know how to tell it. But what I've called musadella,
I probably all correct, except at Cold Canyon, where I may not have
correctly differentiated it from baphyla aramiata. And I have one specimen of baphyla aramiata from
my backyard confirmed by dissection. And baphyla aramiata feeds on scale insects. That's a larva.
Whoa. What's the name of this thing?
What's the name of this thing? Baphyla, B-A-P-H-A-L-A. Species E-R-E-M-I-A-T-A.
Baphyla, B-A-L-A-A. And it's similar then to Faisatodes.
Yeah. It looks like you have it declining in Davis and in Cold Canyon.
It could be. I think Musadella has a wide range of known viral hosts, but I can't.
This is speculation on my part. Faisatodes in general are difficult to identify.
One of the new species this year is identical, almost identical to a species that I never collected,
but Bill Patterson reported at Quail Ridge. And when I dissected it, it was clearly
not the species that Bill Patterson reported. And, you know, I told Bill, you know,
these might be misidentified. I said, you know, he donated his, so I'll look at them when I have
a chance and let you know what they are. And he says, well, they look both the same to me.
Bill is really good at telling things, just that external of those. But externally,
the palpia are a bit longer, and there may be a size different, but when you look at picture
photographs, you know, the photographs don't tell you how large they are or what the size range is.
Do you think this is a native species?
Hard to know. A lot of these, you know, these pantry moths and Faisatines in general,
a lot of them are generalists. And so there's the potential that they could have been in any number of
accidentally imported. Can you, I think we're going to have to go through and label these as
native, non-native, or we don't know, just really quickly. So if you could tell me whether you think
they're native or non-native as we go through. I could tell you what I think, but it might be that
it's online whether they're native or not. Oh, okay. We can double check. But I care what you think, too.
Because I think Wikipedia, you know, Wikipedia sometimes says. But with these micro moths,
it's pretty much your opinion. Yeah. Like, that's what we got.
Well, I'll tell you when I have some knowledge of it. You know, like that Inafila beef lab,
a jury wrote a paper on it, you know. Even when you have a speculation, tell us. Yeah. Okay.
Well, I can tell you if I think there's a high probability, too. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We won't
misrepresent or say you said it was native when you don't know. Pigretti and Mert Valdella
disappeared completely for a while. Is that the next one? Um, my phone is about to die. Oh, I got it.
